source: packet.pdf
sha256: c699322c4d4319f850cfe78c34c7093269fc9843f67236e2c33eed8e9302a981
pages: 332
ocr_pages: 196
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Sustainability & Infrastructure
Commission 
September 13, 2023
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 W. 20  Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
Susan Rowinski, Chair 
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair
Sigalle Michael
Pam Rittelmeyer
Cliff Robbins
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: September 13, 2023 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 822 4305 5681      Passcode: 513593
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair will participate in this meeting via teleconference from:
Residence Inn by Marriott White Plains Westchester County
5 Barker Avenue, White Plains, New York 10601
The Sustainability and Infrastructure meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move to the next regular meeting.
 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission meeting of of August 9, 2023.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to Speak"
form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be referred to
staff for further review.
OLD BUSINESS
2.
Bicycle and Pedestrian Projects Update
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, acting as the City of San Mateo's Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory
Committee, receive an update on bicycle and pedestrian projects.
th
1 of 332

--- page 2 ---
NEW BUSINESS
3.
Sustainable Buildings Strategy – Project Update
Receive an update on the development of "Electrify San Mateo – Building for the Future: City of San Mateo
Sustainable Buildings Strategy."
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments, calendar of events and requests for future agenda items
 
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: Commission meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org  until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Public Work’s Office at (650) 522-7300 or publicworks@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting
will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 332

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR 
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-7926
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Brad Underwood
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
September 13, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission meeting of of August 9, 2023.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes of the August 9, 2023 meeting 
3 of 332

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Sustainability & Infrastructure 
Commission  
August 9, 2023 
7:00 PM 
 
City Hall Council Chamber 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS  
Susan Rowinski, Chair  
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair 
Sigalle Michael 
Pam Rittelmeyer 
Clifford Robbins 
 
MINUTES 
 
CALL TO ORDER 
 
Pledge of Allegiance 
 
Roll Call 
Present:  Chair Rowinski, Commissioners Rittelmeyer, and Michael. 
Absent:  Commissioner Robbins and Vice Chair Narita were absent and excused. 
 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
  
1. Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Minutes - Approval  
 
Motion made to approve the minutes of July 12, 2023.  Motion passed 3-0 
Moved:       Rittelmeyer, Seconded: Rowinski 
Ayes:          Rittelmeyer, Rowinski, and Michael 
Noes:          None 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: None 
   
NEW BUSINESS 
 
2. REMOVE - Electrify San Mateo – Building the Future:  City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings 
Strategy 
This item, originally scheduled on the August 9, 2023 agenda, was postponed due to lack of a quorum. This item 
has been rescheduled for September 13, 2023. 
 
NEW BUSINESS  
 
3. Climate Action Plan 2023 Technical Update 
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst and Eli Krispi, Senior Associate and Tammy Seale (remote for questions), 
Principal from Placeworks, made a presentation to the Commission asking for a recommendation to Council to 
adopt the Climate Action Plan 2023 Technical Update.   
 
Commissioners asked questions of staff.  
4 of 332

--- page 5 ---
Public Comment.  Bruce Naegel spoke to the topic.  
 
Commissioner comments included:  The City Council will adopt the CAP 2023 Technical Update as its own 
document alongside the General Plan in early 2024; the CAP is an implementation plan of the General Plan that 
quantifies greenhouse gas emissions and establishes reduction emission reduction targets.   
 
Following comments from the commissioners, a motion was made to recommend to Council adoption of the 
Climate Action Plan 2023 Technical Update.  Motion passed 3-0. 
 
Moved:     Michael, Seconded: Rittelmeyer  
Ayes:        Michael, Rittelmeyer, and Rowinski 
Noes:        None 
   
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENT FROM COMMISSIONER AND STAFF 
• Andrea Chow pointed out the San Mateo County Mosquito and Vector Control District will host an 
informational seminar called “Everything You Never Knew You Wanted to Know About Mosquitos” on 
August 22nd at 6:00 pm in the Oak Room at the Main Library.     
• Chair Rowinski mentioned the flood and storm protection initiative mail-in ballot that will help fund 
improvements to the City’s stormwater infrastructure system, including dredging the lagoon and 
maintenance of pump pipes.  A third-party expert and consultant will be at the August 21st Council 
meeting to discuss the New Year’s Eve storms, along with short and long-term actions the City and 
residents can do to prepare for future heavy storm events. Information about that meeting will be posted 
72 hours before that date.       
 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Adjourn:   7:40 PM 
 
 
Agendas and background material are posted on the City’s website  www.cityofsanmateo.org 
at least 72 hours preceding each Commission meeting.  Any supplemental material distributed to Commissioners after the posting of 
the agenda will be available for public review at City Hall, City Manager’s office. 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo. 
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this 
meeting may contact the Public Works Department at (650) 522-7300.  Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the city to 
make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting. 
 
5 of 332

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-7945
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Brad Underwood
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
September 13, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Bicycle and Pedestrian Projects Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, acting as the City of San Mateo's Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory 
Committee, receive an update on bicycle and pedestrian projects. 
BACKGROUND:
Staff will present brief updates on the pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure projects and planning efforts.
Infrastructure Projects
Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor: Staff was awarded funds by the California Transportation Commission 
(CTC) Active Transportation Program (ATP) Cycle 5 call for projects for the Delaware Street Safe Routes to School bicycle 
project. This project intends to implement the Delaware Street Class IV separated bike lane and Class III bicycle boulevard 
as planned in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan. This project provides necessary safety improvements in an area with a high 
level of traffic stress and will improve safety and connectivity to two public schools accessed from Delaware Street. 
Further, this project improves connectivity with the newly relocated Hillsdale Caltrain station from the north and south. 
The following is an update on this effort. 
•
The Request for Proposals (RFP) to solicit consultant services for the design and community engagement phases of 
the project will be released later this month.
28th Avenue Gap Closure Project: Staff was awarded funds from the San Mateo County Transportation Authority 
Pedestrian and Bicycle Program Cycle 5 to fund the design and environmental review for the Hillsdale Caltrain Station 
Bicycle Access Gap Closure project. The project intent is to evaluate options and complete the design plans for the Class IV 
separated bike lane identified in the adopted 2020 Bicycle Master Plan, in addition to bicycle and pedestrian connectivity 
across the intersection of 28th Avenue and El Camino Real. The scope of the project was expanded east to E. Kyne Street 
to include design plans for the proposed Class II bike lane from Delaware Street to E. Kyne Street and at the Delaware 
Street and Kyne Street intersections to connect bicyclists using existing and proposed bike facilities east of Kyne Street and 
on Delaware Street. The following is an update on this effort.
•
City staff and the consultant team restarted the project with the expanded scope on July 13, 2023. 
•
The project team is revising the engagement plan and the conceptual design alternatives for the full extent of the 
project area. 
•
City staff anticipate hosting a community meeting in November 2023 for feedback on the conceptual designs and 
presenting to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission in Winter 2023.
6 of 332

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Pavement Management Program Integration: Staff continues to integrate the implementation of bicycle facilities with 
scheduled pavement management projects where funding for design and construction is available and feasible. The 
following is an update on this effort. 
•
Smooth Streets Phase 3: This pavement management project includes the installation of a bicycle boulevard on 
Sunnybrae Boulevard from S. Delaware Street to S. Amphlett Boulevard. The improvements include bicycle and 
pedestrian safety elements including modifications to the roadway configuration near Folkstone Avenue and 
signage. The City hosted a community meeting at the project site on July 29, 2023 to discuss the project and 
potential improvements with stakeholders. Staff are currently considering other potential traffic calming 
opportunities on Sunnybrae Boulevard and expect the bicycle improvements to be striped in Winter 2023. 
•
4th and 5th Avenue Railroad Crossing Improvements Project: This project includes repaving approximately 100 
feet of roadway on both 4th Avenue and 5th Avenue, installation of a Class II bicycle lane on 5th Avenue between 
B Street and Railroad Avenue, and replacement of all striping, signage, and markings within project limits (e.g. stop 
lines, lane markings, pavement markings). Construction is in progress with the majority of the striping and signage 
for the Class II bike lane completed. Material procurement has caused a slight delay in the schedule with 
construction anticipated to be complete in October/November 2023.
School Zone Speed Limits: City Council’s strategic plan prioritizes the implementation of bicycle and pedestrian projects 
that address safety issues. Part of this objective includes evaluating school zone speed limit reductions to address quality 
of-life and safety within neighborhoods. Speed limit reductions in school zones can help reduce the risk of severe or fatal 
conflicts between vehicles and active transportation users (e.g., cyclists and pedestrians) and can also help promote 
students and families walking or biking to school. City Council adopted a resolution in December 2021 identifying a total of 
38 roadway segments contiguous to 23 schools in San Mateo that qualify for speed limit reductions and authorized the 
reduction of posted speed limits in these zones. The following is an update on this effort. 
•
Construction at Phase 1 elementary and middle schools completed in late June 2023. 
•
Outreach for Phase 1 was launched to coincide with the first day of school on August 15 and included distribution 
of 300 Slow for Student yard signs in English and Spanish, social media outreach, communications to schools and 
families, and news coverage in the San Mateo Daily Journal, KRON 4 News, and Telemundo.
•
City staff and the consultant team are working on the design for Phase 2 and 3 schools which includes private 
elementary and middle schools and public high schools. 
19th Avenue/Fashion Island Class IV Bicycle Facility Project: This project is part of a joint effort between the City, San 
Mateo County Transportation Authority (SMCTA), and SamTrans to design and construct multimodal improvements as part 
of the 101/92 Interchange Project. The project includes feasibility, design, and construction of Class IV separated bicycle 
lanes on 19th Avenue and Fashion Island Boulevard, including intersection improvements, and is expected to connect 
directly to a proposed Mobility Hub at the existing Caltrans Park and Ride location being constructed in parallel. In addition 
to the proposed Class IV separated bikeway, the project includes smart corridor elements such as smart streetlights, air 
quality monitoring, traffic signal detection enhancements, and smart kiosks and digital bus stops with real-time transit 
information. The following is an update on this effort. 
•
Phase 1 outreach was completed in late June 2023 and included a bike/walk audit with stakeholders at the project 
site, pop-up tables at the Peninsula Family YMCA and along the Seal Slough pedestrian path, and outreach to the 
Fiesta Gardens neighborhood association at the homeowner’s association meeting.
•
City staff and the consultant team are identifying conceptual design alternatives for the project and anticipate 
presenting those to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission and City Council in early 2024.
Alameda de las Pulgas Corridor Analysis and Hillsdale Boulevard at Alameda de las Pulgas Traffic Signal Design: This project 
will conduct a corridor traffic analysis to assess current and future roadway operations on Alameda de las Pulgas at the 
28th, 31st, and 36th Avenue intersections. While bicycle infrastructure will not be implemented as part of this project, the 
analysis will include bicycle movements for the proposed Class II buffered bike lanes on Alameda de las Pulgas as identified 
in the adopted 2020 Bicycle Master Plan. The project will also assess and design traffic signal operations at the Hillsdale 
Boulevard and Alameda de las Pulgas intersection to optimize safety for all modes, including pedestrians from nearby 
schools and bicyclists using the existing Class II bicycle lanes on Hillsdale Boulevard. The following is an update on this 
effort.
7 of 332

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
The contract was awarded at the September 5, 2023 City Council meeting. 
•
City staff are coordinating with the consultant team for project initiation.
Planning Projects
Complete Streets Plan: A collaborative team of staff from Public Works, Community Development, and the City Manager’s 
Office submitted an application to the Caltrans Sustainable Communities FY 2021-22 Grant Program for the San Mateo 
Complete Streets Plan and was awarded funding for the project in June 2021. This project will bring together the City’s 
various active transportation plans, Local Roadway Safety Plan, and the Green Infrastructure Plan to fully envision a 
multimodal transportation network and identify priority improvements for the City. The following is an update on this 
effort. 
•
The first of three phases of community engagement occurred in June and July 2023 and included a walk/transit 
tour, a bike tour, school community and renters focus groups, pop-up tables at the City’s 4th of July event at 
Central Park and the College of San Mateo Farmer’s Market, online survey, and an interactive online mapping 
activity.
•
The project team is finalizing the Needs Assessment report, identifying High Needs Corridors, and developing the 
draft Design Manual which will include design standards and guidelines for implementing transportation 
improvements.
•
City staff anticipate presenting an update to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission and City Council in 
October 2023.
Citywide Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Ordinance: The Citywide TDM Ordinance envisions a comprehensive 
approach to TDM in San Mateo by recommending trip reduction goals to be established throughout the City to support 
VMT reduction and the goal of a multimodal transportation network. The project will propose updates to the San Mateo 
Municipal Code and develop Program Guidelines to provide detail and guidance for staff and the development community 
to implement trip reduction goals for projects in San Mateo. The project will evaluate existing TDM policies, consider best 
practices from like jurisdictions, and develop a framework for policy development. The framework will outline specific 
policy aspects on which Commission and Council will provide feedback to develop the final policy parameters. This project 
is funded through a technical assistance grant from the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC). The following is 
an update on this effort. 
•
City staff and the consultant team completed the first round of community engagement which included separate 
focus group meetings with local developers, transportation agencies and advocates, and the San Mateo Chamber 
of Commerce, and presentations to the Planning Commission and Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission in 
July 2023.
•
The project team is finalizing the TDM Measures List and developing the draft TDM Policy Framework and draft 
Compliance and Monitoring Requirements.
•
City staff anticipate presenting an update to the City Council in Fall 2023.
Local Road Safety Plan: The Local Roadway Safety Plan (LRSP) will analyze collision patterns in the city and use those 
findings to recommend prioritized safety improvements that will work toward the goal of reducing fatal and severe injury 
crashes. Following input from the community and the LRSP’s Safety Partners, a list of prioritized projects will be developed 
and incorporated into a Local Roadway Safety Plan document. The following is an update on this effort. 
•
City staff and the consultant team held the first of two meetings with the Project Development Team on June 26 
and presented an informational update to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission in July 2023.
•
Community engagement was conducted in July and August 2023 and included pop-up tables at the College of San 
Mateo Farmer’s Market and City of San Mateo 4th of July event at Central Park, an interactive online mapping 
activity and StoryMap on the project webpage. A-frames with neighborhood specific collision data were posted 
along high-traffic areas in the city to direct the community members to the online mapping activity. 
•
The draft LRSP is expected to be presented to Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission in October 2023.
Complete Streets North Central Plan: As directed by City Council at the March 20, 2023 meeting, staff developed a scope 
8 of 332

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
for a Complete Streets North Central Plan that will be completed concurrently with the Citywide Complete Streets Plan. 
The scope for the Plan includes extensive engagement with the community to understand the lived experience and 
identify needs and goals for a community-specific transportation plan. The Plan will result in the development of priority 
projects for the neighborhood to address the goals and community needs. The following is an update on this effort. 
•
City staff and the consultant team engaged with the community at the City’s National Night Out event on August 
1st where community members shared their thoughts on transportation safety in the neighborhood.
•
The project team is conducting stakeholder interviews with neighborhood leaders to understand the needs, 
concerns, and expectations of the community, create partnerships, and inform the community engagement plan.
•
Community engagement for the Plan will begin in September 2023 with development of a Lived Experience Group 
to inform the project on an ongoing basis and provide assistance with community activities.
Grants
MTC Parking Management Grant: The Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) issued a call for projects in July 
2022. The grant aims to support projects that implement parking management strategies to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions and address other regional issues such as health, safety, and congestion.
•
City staff submitted a grant application in March 2023 requesting $200,000 towards aligning the City’s parking 
requirements with the MTC Transit-Oriented Communities (TOC) Policy to remove parking minimums in areas near 
transit, evaluating parking requirements for areas of the City outside the TOC policy areas, and updating the City’s 
Municipal Codes related to parking.
•
MTC recommended the project for full funding in July 2023 with the notice to proceed expected in early Fall 2023. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with receiving this program update.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This bicycle and pedestrian program update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Nicolette Chan, Associate Transportation Planner
nchan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7326
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
9 of 332

--- page 10 ---
THE FOLLOWING PUBLIC
COMMENTS WERE SUBMITTED
FOLLOWING THE PUBLICATION

OF THE AGENDA PACKET

10 of 332


--- page 11 ---
rrom: Luopel worny

Sent: Monday, September 11, 2023 8:20 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Road Safety around Aragon

Hi, my name is Cooper Wong. | am an Aragon High School student. | will be commenting at the commission meeting this
week on biking and walking safety around campus. | would appreciate it if you had time to read this article beforehand.
Thank you very much!

Cooper

11 of 332


--- page 12 ---
9/12/23, 8:10 AM Transportation: How do Aragon students get to school?

Home (https://aragonoutlook.org/) / 2022 (https://aragonoutlook.org/2022/) / December (https://aragonoutlook.org/2022/12/) /
Transportation: How do Aragon students get to school? (https://aragonoutlook.org/202 2/1 2/transportation-how-do-aragon-students-
get-to-school/)

Features INSTAGRAM

Transportation: How do aregonauok

(1h. o:'//www.instagram.com/arag

Aragon students get to (nttps://wwyy.t (https://ww.
school?

Charlotte Gregory (https://aragonoutlook.org/author/24gregoryc/) © December 8, 2022 (nttps://wwiy.i (https://ww.
3 min read

(https://wwiw. (netps://wwyy.i
(nttps://wwiy. (https://wwy.|

(https://www.i (Attps://www.i

e
a
rd
4

(nttps://www.i (https://www.i

FRAN ATS ee Peas

(nttps://wwiw. (http://www

(attps://wway.t (https://www.i
At Aragon, several students and teachers utilize alternate means of
transportation such as biking and scootering to arrive or leave school
instead of a car.

(nttps://www.i (https://wwys. |
History teacher Jon Felder has been biking to school since he first started

working at Aragon. (https://wwa.i (https://wwy.i

"| live... on the other side of the city in the Shoreview neighborhood, and
it’s a good way for me to get across town,” Felder said, “When | started
working here before [COVID-19], there was a lot of traffic on Alameda.

WERRESSRILEAP SRS SMS ve AR SoBahts BeSvekAd Ae HARING ATEINeAA Sue to use this site we will assume that you are
.. SO | decided | would bike.” happy with it. OK

hitps://aragonoutlook.org/2022/1 2/transportation-how-do-aragon-students-get-lo-school/ alg

12 of 332


--- page 13 ---
9/12/23, 8:10 AM

For Felder, kicking off his morning with a bike ride to school helps prepare
him for the long day ahead,

“| teach starting at 8:30 a.m., so one of the challenges is getting some
energy before the first period,” Felder said. “It's uphill from where | live to
get to school, so that kind of gets the blood flowing [and] wakes me up.”

While certainly an energizing experience, biking has its dangers. Sharing
the road with cars, for example, has been a challenge for many bikers on
campus. Some students described getting hit by a car, resulting in bruised
hips and crutches over a few weeks.

“If you ride on the sidewalk, then you get yelled at by the people on the
sidewalk,” said sophomore Gerald Schwab, “If you're out in the street, then
the cars honk at you.”

In her experience, most traffic occurs within five minutes before and after
school, making the majority of her trips to and from school fairly smooth.

Weather can be another obstacle. When San Mateo received a large
amount of rain, some bikers used equipment to avoid arriving at school
soaked,

“I've had to invest in a waterproof... jacket and pants,” said math teacher
Craig Sipple, who uses a combination of biking and public transportation
to get from San Francisco to Aragon each morning. “It does add a little
extra to the commute, having to gear up, but... if you invest in the right
gear, you can Stay dry.”

Many students and teachers find that the benefits of biking to school
outweigh the potential disadvantages. For Sipple, the environmental
benefits of biking were one of the main reasons why he sold his car and
began using his bike as his primary means of transportation,

"[Biking] is a good way for me to get
across town”

Transportation: How do Aragon students get to school?

Load More...

Follow on Instagram
(https://www. instagram.com/aragonoul

OUTLOOK ARCHIVES BY
MONTH

2023
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2023/):
Jan
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2023/0°
Feb
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2023/0:
Mar
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2023/0:
Apr
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2023/0:
May
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2023/0:!
Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec

2022
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2022/):
Jan Feb
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2022/0:
Mar
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2022/0.
Apr
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2022/0.
May
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2022/0:
Jun Jul Aug Sep
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2022/0'
Oct
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2022/11
Nov
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2022/1'
Dec
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2022/1:

2021
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2021/):
Jan
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2021/0°
Feb

We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to (Hits 7A ragotlouteok Orgy 2027/0:

happy with it. OK

https://aragonoutlook.org/2022/1 2/transponation-haw-do-aragon-students-get-to-school/

Mar

3/9

13 of 332


--- page 14 ---
9/12/23, 8:10 AM

Carbon dioxide, emitted by cars, is one of the main contributors to global

climate change. When greenhouse gasses like carbon dioxide are released
into the air, they trap heat in the atmosphere, creating a domino effect of
environmental consequences such as melting ice sheets, habitat loss and

endangered species.

According to a study conducted by the University of California, Los
Angeles, moderate increases in bicycle use in place of cars could prevent
an estimated six to 14 million tons of carbon dioxide from entering the
atmosphere each year.

Beyond biking, there are other environmentally-friendly methods of
transportation that students use to get to school instead of driving. For
junior Edward Gomez, it’s the electric scooter,

“It's a foldable scooter,” Gomez said. “It's not too heavy — It's like 25
pounds. The charge time is around four to five hours .., It's really
convenient.”

When scootering to school, Gomez experiences some of the same troubles
as bikers when it comes to sharing the road with cars.

“Cars just zoom by and typically don’t stop," Gomez said. "There’s no stop
signs indicating that they should stop, or any speed bumps.”

But while dangers on the road have been a challenge, Gomez has been
able to avoid accidents and collisions by practicing caution. Outside of
school, he also uses his scooter to travel to other places around San
Mateo.

“| typically go shopping,” Gomez said, “| sometimes go downtown or
anywhere that's not ... too far.”

Although both biking and scootering have their potential dangers, they are
a feasible option for transporting people to and from school. The
environmental, health and recreational benefits of these alternate forms
of transportation are valued by many students and teachers alike.

“Biking to school is a wonderful thing,” said sophomore Chloé Levadoux,
“It's great for our planet, it brings people together and it creates
community.”

Transportation: How do Aragon students get to school?

(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2021/0.
Apr
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2021/0.
May
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2021/0!
Jun Jul Aug
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2021/0!
Sep
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2021/0'
Oct
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2021/11
Nov
(Https://Aragonoutlook,Org/2021/1'
Dec
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2021/1;

2020
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2020/):
Jan
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2020/0'
Feb
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2020/0:
Mar
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2020/0:
Apr
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2020/0.
May
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2020/0:!
Jun
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2020/0:
Jul Aug
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2020/0!
Sep
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2020/0'
Oct
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2020/1!
Nov Dec
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2020/1:

2019
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2019/):
Jan
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2019/0°
Feb
(Https://Aragonoutlook.Org/2019/0;
Mar

We se cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website, If you continue to (bittps:s/Anaganiostlook 16sg/204 2/0:
elate

happy with it. OK

https://aragonoutlook.org/2022/1 2/transporiation-how-do-aragon-siudents-get-to-school/

Apr

4/9

14 of 332


--- page 15 ---
Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 11:03 AM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Ce: Andrea Chow; Sue-Ellen Atkinson; Nicolette Chan

Subject: SIC comments - Decarbonization, BPAC & Climate Action, and #WeekWithoutDriving
Dear SIC,

City Staff have done an amazing job preparing these reports and have been working hard!
Please see my comments and questions ahead of the upcoming meeting:

- Support Decarbonizing Existing Buildings
- Ped/Bike Update & Climate Action Plan
- #WeekWithoutDriving

Support Decarbonizing Existing Buildings

Both | and my mother have experienced gas leaks at places we have rented in the city where we’ve had to call the
company to come out. And having a gas stove caused major health concerns for my mom to the point where she had to
move. Eliminating gas from buildings benefits human health and the environment.

Ped/Bike Update & Climate Action Plan

In the city’s CAP, the reductions to come from ped/bike and transit are very small. Most reductions related to
transportation are expected to come from TDM/TOD and clean fleet/EV. But even with all the reductions laid out in the
plan, the transportation sector will still be the highest GHG emissions in San Mateo. Does the city know what needs to
happen to bring the GHG emissions from transportation to zero? Why do ped/bike investments bring so little in GHG
reductions for the CAP?

https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/2769/Climate-Action-Plan

#WeekWithoutDriving
This week San Mateo County is encouraging decision makers to try a #WeekWithoutDriving.

The goal of the #WeekWithoutDriving is for those who have the option to drive to understand the barriers and
challenges that non-drivers face, with the goal to create better communities for all — to experience it yourself — not
just walking, rolling or taking transit to eliminate a car trip, but for everything you do.

The Week Without Driving campaign is national this year (10/2-8), but San Mateo County's week (9/10-16) is different
than the national dates due to the school district's fall break.

https://americawalks.org/week-without-drivin

https://americawalks.org/campaigns/national-week-without-drivin

1

‘

15 of 332


--- page 16 ---
More than one third of the population do not drive. This includes people who can’t drive because of a disability,
kids, teens and younger generations, immigrants, people with suspended licenses and to avoid drinking and
driving, people who have aged out of driving, and many people with licenses who can’t afford to own a car, pay for
insurance, parking or gas.

https://gnwweg.org/blog/how-many-people-do-not-drive

https://www.washingtonpost.com/health/2022/04/24/aging-drivers

https://www.itdp.org/2019/05/23/high-cost-transportation-united-states

Thanks very much!

Best, Kristie

16 of 332


--- page 17 ---
From: Anna Cwirko-Godycki

Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 2:44 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Subject: Electric homes and Bike Lanes for San Mateo

Dear Commissioners:

ELECTRIC HOMES - great idea for the environment, but many reasons to delay implementation
from January 2025 to at least 2030. A city can also set realistic expectations for the number of
home conversions each year.

Reasons to delay:

1. Not clear on the specific details of the mandate.

2. Not clear on whether energy bills will be higher or lower. There is lots of debate and no clear
answer. Some studies suggest that expenditures will 2 or 3 times higher. Water heaters consume
45%-50% of energy needs for the home.

3. Not clear on whether the electric grid is sufficient for all those who will be tied to the grid.

2. San Mateo has citizens with various incomes, savings, financial resources.

Unless this mandate is economically feasible to property and business owners it should not be a
requirement. This mandate is itimidating and overwhelming. It will create undue hardship for
many families, especially retirees on fixed incomes. Yes, there are rebates and interest free loans,
but these must be clear to everyone, and a guarantee should be provided that if thousands of
homes will be upgraded at the same time there will be sufficient funds and contractors. We heard
that some people who converted their homes were unable to secure the rebates promised.

3. Is there a feasibility study on availability of sufficient professionals to prepare the electric home?
4, Is there a study on supply chain and availability of electric appliances?

5. Will the electric home require additional maintenance?

Such a major shift should not be a requirement in 1.5 years. A long period of public education and
preparation is needed.

People need to know precisely what rebates and loans are available and the processes to obtain
these. Non English speakers should have assistance with the paperwork.

BIKE LANES
While in theory | support the creation of bike lanes, | do not support them without careful
consideration of the needs of the entire community, not just the bikers.

Reasons to delay:
1. Displacing parking places for residents, resulting in parking on lawns is unconscionable.

2, Let's be real. San Mateo is not Copenhagen or Oslo in number of cyclists.
1

17 of 332


--- page 18 ---
3. Streets must be created with sidewalks, a lane for parking, a lane for bikes, and a lane for
traffic.

4, Building bike lanes on current streets, such as Norfolk will create traffic jams. There are already
traffic jams during high traffic periods (school drop off and pick up; entrance to 101 in the AM and
PM).

5, Only a minority of residents use bike lanes

6. Bike lanes are often improperly designed, give, provide a false sense of security and are often
dangerous to cars, bikers, and pedestrians.

Thank you for listening.

Anna Cwirko-Godycki

18 of 332


--- page 19 ---
Bicycle and Pedestrian 
Program Update
September 13, 2023
Nicolette Chan
Associate Transportation Planner
Sue-Ellen Atkinson
Principal Transportation Planner
19 of 332

--- page 20 ---
OVERVIEW
• Infrastructure Projects
• Planning Projects
• Grants
20 of 332

--- page 21 ---
Infrastructure Projects
Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor
• Scope: 19th Avenue to Pacific Boulevard
• Design and construction of a Class IV separated 
bike lane and bicycle boulevard
• Total grant funding: $1.66M
• Status:
• Request for Proposal for design and 
construction was released September 7
• Proposals due October 5
• Staff will interview teams
21 of 332

--- page 22 ---
Infrastructure Projects
28th Avenue Gap Closure Project
Existing Class I 
and bike 
boulevard
Proposed Class IV Separated 
Bike Lane
Proposed On-Street Bike Facility
Proposed Class II Bike Lane
• Design and environmental review for 
bicycle and pedestrian connectivity
• Revised Scope: Edison Street to E. 
Kyne Street
• Status:
• Revising engagement plan and 
conceptual designs for expanded 
scope
• Upcoming Outreach
• Nov. 2023 - Community Meeting
• Winter 2023 - Sustainability and 
Infrastructure Commission
22 of 332

--- page 23 ---
Infrastructure Projects
Smooth Streets Phase 3
• Class III Bike Boulevard
• Scope: Delaware St. to S. Amphlett Blvd.
• Traffic calming and pedestrian 
improvements
• Status:
• Community Meeting held on July 29
• Bicycle improvement striping 
expected Winter 2023
23 of 332

--- page 24 ---
Infrastructure Projects
4th and 5th Railroad Crossing Improvement
• Class II Bike Lane on 5th Avenue 
• Scope: B Street to Railroad Avenue
• Status:
• In Progress – Majority of bike lane 
striping and signage completed
• Anticipated completion in 
October/November 2023
24 of 332

--- page 25 ---
School Zone 
Speed Limits 
• Implementation of reduced speed limits in 
qualifying school zones
• 15 mph within 500 feet of school
• 25 mph between 500-1000 feet
• Status of Phases
• Phase 1: Public elementary and middle 
schools (Complete)
• Phase 2: Public high schools (In design)
• Phase 3: Private schools (In design)
25 of 332

--- page 26 ---
Map of 
Phase 1 
Locations
Downloadable at 
www.cityofsanmateo.org/SlowforStudents
26 of 332

--- page 27 ---
School Zone Speed Limits Outreach
200+ Yard Signs
(English and Spanish)
News Coverage
(San Mateo Daily Journal, KRON 4, 
Telemundo)
Dynamic Message Signs
City Social Media Channels
27 of 332

--- page 28 ---
Infrastructure Projects
19th Avenue/Fashion Island Class 
IV Bikeway
• Joint project with SMCTA and SamTrans
• Feasibility, design, and construction of 
Class IV bike facility with Smart Corridor 
elements
• Connects to future mobility hub and 
complements 101/92 Interchange Project
• Status:
• Phase 1 Outreach - Complete 
(bike/walk audit and pop-ups at 
Peninsula YMCA and Seal Slough)
• Update to Sustainability and 
Infrastructure Commission early 2024
28 of 332

--- page 29 ---
Planning Projects


--- page 30 ---
• New, comprehensive multimodal plan
• Combines Pedestrian Master Plan, Bicycle Master Plan, Sustainable Streets Plan, Green 
Infrastructure Plan
• Supports General Plan 2040 with projects that focus on safety for all modes, including 
design standards, streetscape concepts, and specific priority projects
• Status:
• Phase 1 Community Engagement – Complete
• Identified Recommended High-Needs Corridors
• Drafting Design Standards Manual
Planning Projects
San Mateo Complete Streets Plan
30 of 332

--- page 31 ---
Walk/Transit Tour 
Bike Tour
4th of July at Central Park 
Pop-Up
College of San Mateo Farmers Market
Pop-Up
MidPen Housing Focus Group
Planning Projects
San Mateo Complete Streets Plan
31 of 332

--- page 32 ---
Planning Projects
San Mateo Complete Streets Plan
Finalizing Needs Assessment based on 
community feedback
Developing Draft Policies and Design Guidelines 
and Identifying High Need Corridors
Update to the Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission and City Council in October 2023
32 of 332

--- page 33 ---
Planning Projects
Complete Streets North Central Plan
• Focused transportation planning document 
for North Central
• Understand the lived experience and identify 
transportation needs and goals
• Status:
• Outreached at National Night Out on August 1
• Conducting stakeholder interviews with 
neighborhood leaders
• First Lived Experience Group Meeting 
scheduled for October 2023
33 of 332

--- page 34 ---
Complete Streets North Central Plan
Community Engagement Phases
Define neighborhood needs and 
goal setting
Phase 1: 
Listening
Community-led and data 
supported recommendations 
Phase 2: 
Co-Creation 
Prioritization and Priority Project 
Development 
Phase 3:
Review
Current
October to 
December 2023
January – March 2023
34 of 332

--- page 35 ---
Planning Projects
Citywide Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Ordinance
• Comprehensive approach to transportation demand 
management by recommending trip reduction goals 
throughout the City
• Funded by MTC technical assistance grant
• Total Project Cost: $150,000
• Status:
• Completed the first round of community 
engagement (focus group meetings)
• Finalizing TDM Measures List
• Developing draft TDM Policy Framework and 
compliance and monitoring requirements
• Update to City Council in Fall 2023
Remote 
Work
Carshare
Public 
Transit & 
Paratransit
Taxicabs 
& TNCs
Walking
Biking & 
Bikeshare
Rideshare
Land Use 
Changes
35 of 332

--- page 36 ---
Planning Projects
Local Road Safety Plan (LRSP)
• Analyze collision patterns in the City to 
recommend prioritized safety improvements
• Required for Caltrans funding eligibility
• Status
• Community Engagement conducted during 
Summer 2023 
• Pop-ups, online mapping activity, A-frames
• Update to Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission in Fall 2023
36 of 332

--- page 37 ---
Grant Update
MTC Parking Management Grant
• Staff submitted grant application to:
1. Align parking requirements with MTC Transit-Oriented Communities 
(TOC) Policy,
2. Evaluate parking requirements outside of TOC policy areas, and
3. Update zoning codes related to parking.
• MTC recommended the project for full funding in July 2023
• Notice to Proceed expected in Fall 2023
37 of 332

--- page 38 ---
MTC Transit-Oriented Communities Policy
Tier 3 Parking Management Requirements
Downtown San Mateo 
Caltrain
Hayward Park 
Caltrain
Hillsdale 
Caltrain
Burlingame 
Caltrain
TOC Policy Location
LEGEND
• No parking 
minimums
• Establish parking 
maximums
• Requires secured 
bicycle parking
• Requires shared 
parking between 
uses
38 of 332

--- page 39 ---
Thank You
Sue-Ellen Atkinson
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7288
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicworks
Nicolette Chan
nchan@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7326
39 of 332

--- page 40 ---
MTC Transit-Oriented Communities Policy 
Overview
• Requirements for density, affordable 
housing, parking management, and transit 
station access
• Grant Scope – Compliance with parking 
management requirements 
• Requirements based on Transit Tier
• Tier 1: Rail stations
• Tier 2: Stop/station served by 2 or more BART 
lines or BART and Caltrain
• Tier 3: Stop/station served by one transit 
service
• Tier 4: Commuter Rail stations, Caltrain 
stations south of Tamien, or ferry terminals
40 of 332

--- page 41 ---
MTC Transit-Oriented Communities Policy
Tier 3 Parking Management Requirements
• Allow unbundled parking and shared 
parking between different land uses
• New Residential Developments
• No minimum parking requirement
• Parking Maximum of 1.0 spaces per unit 
or lower
• 1 secured bicycle parking space per unit
• New Commercial Development
• No minimum parking requirement
• Parking Maximum of 2.5 spaces per 
1,000 square feet or lower
• 1 secured bicycle parking space per 5,000 
square feet
Downtown San 
Mateo Caltrain
Hayward Park 
Caltrain
Hillsdale 
Caltrain
Burlingame 
Caltrain
TOC Policy Location
LEGEND
41 of 332

--- page 42 ---
Future Phases: TBD

\ i) aw \

Lead: City of San Mateo

| Delaware Safe Routes

Protected Bike Lane

Installation of bicycle infrastructure
identified in the BMP. _ 5
Status: Environmental Phase 7.

PS&E Completion: 07/2025 (est.)
CON: 06/2027 (est.)

rs)

ea’s

>

“Sueme}

») (Est. Completion 02/2023) 1)

19 Avenue Fashion Island Corridor — Planned Project Map — :
4 Lead: City of San Mateo rf
MS % ; % 6 Re-striping Existing Configuration Ke
& . ° y %. ! @, Re-striping of the Mariners bridge to increase o “
> NY \ #, © vehicle throughput. A
» ¥ : J, Status: Planning (Est. Completion 01/23) pp
‘ a Lead: TA.and C/CAG ! Future Phase: TBD S
Re US101/92 S.T.A.P (IP #3} y ®
ote _«_ Exit Ramp Modification
> 4X9 \ Status: PS&E Phase (5/22 - 6/24) \ Uy Lead: City of San Mateo Wf
y Ane CON: 08/2024 (est) Intersection Reconstruction Intersection & ry
4 O, & Uy AS Ks) reconstruction to increase vehicle 9, &;
0, Sy x throughput and increased pedestrian 4 Y
Lead: T Aor safety.
19th Avenue Bike Lone % a Status: Planning (Est. Completion 01/23)
Installation of the bike Lead: TA and SamTrans Future Phase: TBD
\ infrastructure as identifyin BMP. «= Mobility Hub
( Status: Submitted TA Bike/Ped | ™ Construction of a mobility hub for
Grant for Planning and Design (If = | warious modes of transportation
\ “awarded est. completion of Status: Planning phase (Est.
\ Planning phase in 2024) Completion 2024)

Future Phases: TBD

JULIO

iS

‘rmudasDr

Lead: City of San Mateo
Bi-Directional Lane
Configuration

Converting the existing
one-way roadway to two-
way.

Status: Planning Phase
(Est. Completion 01/23)
Future Phases: TBD

Vv
‘

A.

Lead: TA and C/CAG

5101/92 5.1.4. (IP #2)

Lane Merge Modification

From US101 to EB SR92

Status: PS&E Phase (5/22 - 6/24)
CON: 08/2024 (est)

Lead; TA and C/CAG
US101/92 S.1.A.P (IP #1)
Ramp Modification
Status: PS&E Phase (5/22 - 6/24)
© CON: 08/2024 (est)

a ROce
. )

Lead: City of San Mateo

Program for Arterial System Synchronization (PASS)
Increase safety and optimize vehicle throughput by the
means of signal timing.

Status: Implementation Phase (Est. Completion 01/23)

2 at

Ae



--- page 43 ---
High Injury 
Network
This map shows where fatal and 
severe pedestrian, bicycle, and 
automobile injury collisions; youth 
collisions; and active injury 
collisions occurred. 
Includes LRSP priority intersections 
and segments.
43 of 332

--- page 44 ---
Infrastructure Projects
Completed Since 2020
• 5th Avenue Bicycle Facilities
• 28th Avenue Bicycle Boulevard
• 28th Avenue Shared Use Path
• North Central Bike Lanes
• North San Mateo Drive Bike Lane
• Laurie Meadows Buffered Bike 
Lane
• South Humboldt Street Bike Lane
• Pacific Avenue Bike Lane
44 of 332

--- page 45 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS 
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-7936
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger, Interim Assistant City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
September 13, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Sustainable Buildings Strategy – Project Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an update on the development of "Electrify San Mateo – Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable 
Buildings Strategy."
BACKGROUND:
This item was published as part of the August 9, 2023 Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission (SIC) meeting agenda. 
Due to a lack of quorum at the August 9th meeting, this item was not discussed and rescheduled for the September 13, 
2023 SIC meeting. An update was made to Attachment 2 which will be discussed later in this report. Public comments 
submitted for the August 9th meeting are provided as Attachment 3.
Building energy use represents 38% of communitywide greenhouse gas emissions in San Mateo and in January 2022, the 
City Council prioritized the decarbonization of existing buildings to help meet the City’s climate goals. The decarbonization 
or electrification of buildings refers to the transition from gas equipment to electric equipment for space and water 
heating, clothes drying, cooking and more. In San Mateo, Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) provides electricity that is 50% 
renewable and virtually 100% carbon free and PCE is committed to delivering 100% renewable and carbon free electricity 
by 2025. Electrifying existing buildings is key to further reducing communitywide greenhouse gas emissions and technical 
analysis and community engagement are needed to develop a roadmap to clean energy buildings in San Mateo.
Staff released a Request for Proposals (RFP) seeking an experienced team knowledgeable in decarbonization policy 
planning, analysis, and implementation, to develop a decarbonization strategy that centers on equity and promotes a 
collaborative pathway to electrification. The RFP opened on November 22, 2022 and closed on January 10, 2023 and four 
consulting firms responded. After review of the proposals and consultant interviews, staff selected Rincon Consultants, Inc. 
because of their compelling approach to analysis and outreach and their experience with developing a similar strategy for 
other cities. The City Council approved an agreement with Rincon for this project at the March 20, 2023 City Council 
meeting. This project, which is now titled, “Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy,” 
launched in May 2023. 
This report provides an overview of the project and summarizes the local building electrification policy context, presents 
two deliverables from the Rincon team: the policy analysis framework, and building inventory and market segmentation 
analysis. 
Project Overview
The goal of this project is to develop the City of San Mateo Sustainable Building Strategy to electrify San Mateo’s existing 
building stock. The strategy document will be organized around specific policy pathways and actions for both residential 
45 of 332

--- page 46 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
and nonresidential buildings. The project will result in an actionable roadmap with steps for the City of San Mateo to 
electrify buildings. The approach must be cost effective while also helping the City in reaching climate goals and 
greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. In addition to using the best available science and data, this project will also 
utilize a community driven approach that includes two phases of community outreach. The consultants will evaluate the 
City Council’s proposed 2030 “End of Flow” target date for the termination of fuel gas infrastructure and assess a suite of 
policy options, including the Bay Area Reach Codes Model Existing Building Decarbonization Ordinance with a January 1, 
2025 target date for requiring electric appliances upon replacement.
Local Policy Context
As part of the FY 2022-2023 goal setting session, the City Council directed staff to establish policies to decarbonize and 
electrify existing buildings and eliminate natural gas use by 2030. The City’s Climate Action Plan also identifies electrifying 
existing buildings as a key strategy to reduce communitywide greenhouse gas emissions. The City promotes electrification 
through marketing electric appliance rebates and incentives and hosting workshops. Additionally, the City adopted reach 
codes to require and encourage building electrification. In 2020, the City Council adopted an ordinance requiring all 
residential and office buildings be all-electric starting on January 1, 2021. In 2022, the City Council approved an ordinance 
that expanded the all-electric requirement to all new buildings and requires electric-readiness and electric appliances for 
specific home remodels as of January 1, 2023. 
At the regional level, in May 2023, the Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) adopted zero nitrogen oxides 
(NOx) standards that will prohibit the sale and installation of gas water heaters starting in 2027 and gas furnaces in 2029 in 
the nine-county Bay Area. These standards are the most ambitious in the country and outpace the state’s goal of banning 
the sale of new gas furnaces and water heaters throughout the state starting in 2030. These policy efforts drive California 
closer to the ambitious climate goal of carbon neutrality by 2045.
Analysis Framework Memo
The Analysis Framework Memo (Attachment 1) outlines the proposed framework for the development of the Sustainable 
Buildings Strategy. The framework reviews electrification co-benefits, equity criteria, and effectiveness criteria. 
The concept of Energy Equity recognizes that disadvantaged communities have been historically marginalized and 
overburdened by pollution, underinvestment in clean energy infrastructure, and lack of access to energy efficient housing 
and transportation (Department of Energy, Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy). The initial draft of the 
equity criteria proposed for the Sustainable Buildings Strategy for the City’s consideration are summarized below and 
provided in greater detail in the memo and primarily off existing resources like the Department of Energy, Rocky Mountain 
Institute, and Greenlining Institute:
•
Ensure equitable access to health, safety, and comfort benefits
•
Encourage concurrent housing condition improvements
•
Advance energy equity
•
Support high-road job opportunities
•
Maximize ease of installation
•
Promote affordable housing and prevent renter displacement
The equity criteria will be updated based on feedback gained through community outreach and engagement, especially 
with feedback from renters, disadvantaged communities, and small local businesses.
In addition to being equitable, the Sustainable Buildings Strategy must be effective. Broader “effectiveness criteria” are 
used in addition to the equity criteria to ensure the benefits of electrification are fully realized and do not come at the cost 
of other City priorities and projects and do not harm residents and business owners. The draft criteria are below:
•
Cost-effective: Ensure that costs associated with new requirements are minimized or offset through funding and 
financing strategies for residents and business owners and efficiently use limited City, PCE, and other resources.
•
Feasible: Ensure that electrification policies effectively reflect the most up-to-date electrification practices and 
regulatory requirements, considering long-term legal viability and thus; enforceability by the City
46 of 332

--- page 47 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
Measurable and Sustained Impact: Ensure that electrification policies are impactful and enforceable and will 
provide evidence-based results of greenhouse gas emission reduction over the long-term.
•
Reliable: Ensure that energy security and reliability are preserved or improved throughout the community in the 
long-term.
•
Enforceable: allowing for continued City monitoring and enforcement of selected electrification policy 
After incorporating SIC and community feedback, the effectiveness criteria will be finalized and utilized to evaluate, 
modify, and improve the equity and effectiveness of the initiatives and actions to be included in the Sustainable Buildings 
Strategy.
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memo
To develop an equitable, implementable, and effective Sustainable Building Strategy, understanding the existing building 
stock and energy usage is critical.  Rincon developed the Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memo (Attachment 
2) that includes an analysis of building stock, building vintage, and appliance fuel source for residential, multifamily and 
commercial buildings. This memo was updated since the August 9th meeting to include updated rebate amounts from 
Peninsula Clean Energy. Rebate amounts are $1,000 less and electrification marginal costs and cost savings are updated 
accordingly. The project team also summarized estimates for the various costs associated with building electrification. Part 
of this analysis includes investigating the up-front appliance costs for electrification, the cost of other upgrades that may 
be required to convert energy usage in buildings from gas to electricity, and the financial incentives currently available. 
On-bill costs are also an important factor but were not yet available at the time of this report and will be presented orally 
during the meeting. This memo will help the City in developing educational materials for the community as well as 
informing future policy development.
Next Steps
The project team is moving into the first round of community engagement. Broadly, community engagement throughout 
this process is to educate the community and decisionmakers on the building electrification process and how it provides 
co-benefits and supports accomplishing the City’s GHG reduction targets. There is also a need to educate the community 
and decisionmakers on the incentives and costs for building electrification to increase widespread access to incentives. The 
project team aims to generate support and buy-in from key interested parties and establish an equitable public 
engagement process by identifying and removing barriers for meaningful community-wide participation. The team is also 
challenged to achieve broad demographic and geographic representation from key interested parties, especially hard-to-
reach communities and those who do not typically engage in City processes, by partnering with trusted community groups 
and advisors. 
In this first round of outreach, the goal will be to specifically collect community feedback to refine equity and effectiveness 
criteria to reflect community priorities and build widespread understanding of the local building and cost conditions for 
building electrification in San Mateo. 
The next presentation to the SIC is tentatively scheduled for January 10, 2024 to present on the prioritized decarbonization 
policies for each building type and to report out on community feedback. Meanwhile, the project team will work on the 
draft prioritized policies list and incorporate community feedback. Staff is planning for another phase of outreach in Spring 
2024 to solicit feedback on the prioritized policy list. Staff is anticipating a City Council Study Session on the draft policies 
before returning to the SIC in April 2024 with the proposed strategy document. Following SIC approval and 
recommendation, the project team would present at a City Council meeting for approval and adoption.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The project has no impact to the City’s General Fund. Funding for the project was approved at the March 20, 2023 City 
Council meeting. The funding was appropriated from the Advance Planning Fund (Fund 225).
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
47 of 332

--- page 48 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Analysis Framework Memo
Att 2 - Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memo
Att 3 - Public Comment
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7007
Denise Garcia, Management Analyst II
dgarcia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7277
48 of 332

--- page 49 ---
Rincon Consultants, 
Inc.
449 15 t h Street, Suite 303
Oakland, California 94612
5 1 0 - 8 3 4 - 4 4 5
info@rinconconsultants.co
m
www.rinconconsultants.com
E n v i r o n m e n t a l  S c i e n t i s t s
P l a n n e r s
E n g i n e e r s
05/10/2023
Project No: 23-14014
Andrea Chow
Sustainability Analyst
City of San Mateo | City Manager’s Office 
330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403
O: (650) 522-7007 
Subject: 
Analysis Framework Memo incorporating Equity and Effectiveness
Electrify San Mateo | Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings 
Strategy 
Dear Ms. Chow: 
This Analysis Framework Memo outlines the proposed framework for development of the San Mateo 
Sustainable Buildings Strategy (Sustainable Buildings Strategy) policy pathways and actions. The 
proposed framework includes:
▪
Draft organizational structure for achieving building electrification goals, which breaks down the 
Sustainable Buildings Strategy into implementable policies and actions organized by building type
▪
Draft electrification co-benefits, which will be used to drive the project’s messaging during outreach 
and engagement and relate to existing building electrification in general
▪
Draft equity criteria that will guide the development and implementation of the Sustainable 
Buildings Strategy in an equitable manner
▪
Draft effectiveness criteria, which will ensure the electrification actions are feasible and effective
The contents of this memo are meant to be an initial draft for the City’s consideration and feedback. 
Once further developed, the draft electrification co-benefits, equity criteria, and effectiveness criteria 
are intended to be shared with the community as part of the project’s outreach and engagement effort. 
Outreach and engagement will solicit feedback to inform expansion, re-development, and finalization of 
the criteria. The initial list of building decarbonization policy options which is currently under 
development (ex. time of replacement, indoor air quality requirements, building performance 
standards, infrastructure pruning etc.) will be screened against the equity and effectiveness criteria in 
accordance with the organizational structure outlined in this memo. 
Electrification Actions Organizational Structure
The Sustainable Buildings Strategy will focus on existing building electrification in both the residential 
and nonresidential sectors. To define the structure and vocabulary associated with the Sustainable 
Buildings Strategy electrification actions up-front, Rincon proposes that the Sustainable Buildings 
Strategy be organized around specific policy pathways and actions for both residential and 
49 of 332

--- page 50 ---
Electrify San Mateo 
Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy 
Page 2
nonresidential buildings since the policy type (electrify on replacement ordinance, electric preferred, 
voluntary incentives, building performance standards) have the greatest impact on the equity and 
effectiveness criteria. Residential and nonresidential buildings are further categorized by building 
size/usage, which can be used as a proxy for equipment types. This categorization is used because 
building equipment types dictate the specific technical and cost considerations for electrification based 
on what type of appliance type, or process load is being used in the building. For example, the costs and 
technical needs of electrifying a single-family home (replacement of all household appliances like hot 
water heaters, dryers, stoves, with electric technology) versus an industrial kitchen (replacement of 
commercial gas-powered stoves with all-electric, water heating, etc.) is substantially different, thus 
requiring different decarbonization strategies. 
The structure of the overall strategy will be organized in the following way, and is also described in 
Figure 1:
▪
Cross Cutting or Foundational Actions and Advocacy are actions that support electrification across 
sectors and could include education and outreach programs, facilitation of financing options, 
contractor training, coordination with interested parties, supporting energy security and reliability, 
and advocacy. These actions span the entire strategy, providing the conditions needed to achieve 
building decarbonization across all building types. 
▪
Policy Pathways identify the high-level policy levers for building electrification that together make 
up the City’s electrification strategy. Example policy pathways include requiring installation of 
electric equipment at time-of-replacement, indoor air quality NOx standards or establishing building 
performance standards. 
o
Policy pathways are organized by building type (residential/nonresidential), and size: 
Based on Rincon’s past work with the Cities of Sacramento and Berkeley, building size 
and equipment type provides an important organizing framework when selecting 
decarbonization policies. Building size and equipment type can be a useful proxy for 
characterizing building electrification costs and technical challenges, allowing for the 
selection of building decarbonization policies tailored to these specific conditions. 
▪
Actions identify the component programs, policies, financial solutions, 
community engagement, and other commitments that together will make the 
parent policy pathway equitable and feasible. Each group of actions that 
support a policy pathway will collectively address the potential hurdles to 
successful policy implementation: equity impacts, community education gaps, 
funding gaps, and other specific effectiveness gaps identified during project 
outreach. 
50 of 332

--- page 51 ---
Electrify San Mateo 
Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy 
Page 3
Figure 1: City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy Draft Organizational Structure
 
The organizational structure provides an organized and easily understandable framework for the San 
Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy. Organizing electrification actions in this way will ensure that each 
policy pathway in the residential and nonresidential sectors are supported by a comprehensive set of 
concrete, implementable, and specific actions tailored to both building types, and the specific 
electrification context specific to each one
Electrification Co-Benefits
Electrifying existing buildings is expected to produce many positive outcomes in San Mateo. 
Communicating these positive outcomes during outreach and engagement requires identification of the 
important benefits the community will see as a result of the Sustainable Buildings Strategy. These 
electrification benefits will be refined further in the first stage of outreach in the community 
engagement strategy. An initial draft list of electrification benefits proposed for the City’s consideration 
are: 
▪
Equitable investment in low-income housing & holistic building upgrades: Housing in low-income 
areas, frequently lived-in by renters, has been systemically disinvested in through policies like 
Redlining.1 Electrification of existing buildings offers an opportunity for the City to catalyze upgrades 
1 Sustainable San Mateo County. Historical Background. https://sustainablesanmateo.org/home/indicators/2021-
key-indicator-report/historical-
background/#:~:text=Although%20currently%20illegal%2C%20redlining%20was,neighborhoods%20due%20to%20t
heir%20ethnicity.
51 of 332

--- page 52 ---
Electrify San Mateo 
Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy 
Page 4
to these homes which disproportionately feature poor insulation and higher energy bills, while 
simultaneously replacing gas-burning appliances with electric and improving the comfort and 
livability in degraded housing stock. Improvements in building performance and energy efficiency 
for degraded housing stock may be a prerequisite for low-income households to realize the long-
term cost savings associated with all-electric buildings.2
▪
Health: Commonly used appliances that burn gas, including stoves, heating systems, and water 
heaters, emit hazardous air pollutants inside a home when improperly ventilated, or when leaks 
occur. These can include benzene, nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides, carbon monoxide, formaldehyde, 
particular matter and other harmful pollutants that increase the risk of respiratory disease.3,4,5,6 
Health impacts related to cooking with gas appliances in particular can be serious, but are generally 
not widely understood by consumers.7 Peer reviewed studies have documented that residences 
with gas stoves have 50 to 400% higher average nitrogen dioxide concentrations than homes with 
electric stoves.8 Living in a home with a gas stove may increase children’s risk of asthma by 42%.9 
Given that Californians spend 70% of a given day indoors,10 and potentially more given the context 
of the COVID pandemic, indoor air quality is an important health consideration for many. Gas usage 
in buildings causes outdoor air pollution as well and has generated six times more nitrogen oxides 
2 Equitable Building Decarbonization, Building Energy, Equity, and Power (BEEP) Coalition. ARB. 2022. 
https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/sites/default/files/2022-
03/BEEP%20Letter%20and%20Report_Equitable%20Decarb%20March%202022.pdf
3 Krasner, A., Jones, T. S., & La Rocque, R. (2021). Cooking with Gas, Household Air Pollution, and Asthma: Little 
Recognized Risk for Children. Journal of Environmental Health, 83(8), 14-18. https://www.proquest.com/scholarly-
journals/cooking-with-gas-household-airpollution-asthma/docview/2505418593/se-2?accountid=201395.
4 Seals, B., & Krasner, A. (2020). Health Effects from Gas Stove Pollution. Rocky Mountain Institute, Physicians for 
Social Responsibility, Mothers Out Front, and Sierra Club. https://rmi.org/insight/gasstoves-pollution-health.
5 4 Zhao, H., Chan, W. R., Cohn, S., Delp, W. W., Walker, I. S., & Singer, B. C. (2020) Indoor air quality in new and 
renovated low-income apartments with mechanical ventilation and natural gas cooking in California. International 
Journal of Indoor Environment and Health, 31(3), 717-729. https://doi.org/10.1111/ina.12764.
6 Logue, J. M., Klepeis, N. E., Lobscheid, A. B., & Singer, B. C. (2014) Pollutant exposures from natural gas cooking 
burners: A simulation-based assessment for Southern California. Environmental Health Perspectives, 122(1), 43-50.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3888569/.
7 Nicole, Wendee. (2014). Cooking up Indoor Air Pollution: Emissions from Natural Gas Stoves. Journal of 
Environmental Health Perspectives, 122(1). https://doi.org/10.1289/ehp.122-A27.
8 U.S. EPA. Integrated Science Assessment (ISA) for Oxides of Nitrogen – Health Criteria (Final Report, Jul 2008). 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC, EPA/600/R-08/071, 2008. 
https://cfpub.epa.gov/ncea/isa/recordisplay.cfm?deid=194645.
9 Weiwei, L., Brunekreef, B., & Gehring, U. (2013). Meta-analysis of the effects of indoor nitrogen dioxide and gas 
cooking on asthma and wheeze in children. International Journal of Epidemiology, 42(6), 1724–1737. 
https://doi.org/10.1093/ije/dyt150.
10 Klepeis, N. E., Nelson, W. C., Ott, W. R., Robinson, J. P., Tsang, A. M., Switzer, P., ... & Engelmann, W. H. (2001). 
The National Human Activity Pattern Survey (NHAPS): a resource for assessing exposure to environmental 
pollutants. Journal of Exposure Science & Environmental Epidemiology, 11(3), 231-252.
52 of 332

--- page 53 ---
Electrify San Mateo 
Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy 
Page 5
emissions than all in-state power plants combined.11 Outdoor air pollution from buildings has been 
linked to pre-mature deaths in California.12
▪
Safety: Gas infrastructure carries an inherent safety risk due to the volatile nature of gas, including 
risk of methane leakage, damage during earthquakes, accidental explosions, or fires. Nationwide, 
gas ignites over 4,000 home structure fires annually, causing on average 40 deaths and $54 million 
in property damage each year.13
▪
Energy Affordability: Gas infrastructure costs are expected to increase over the next several 
decades as more substantial infrastructure upgrades are required. The California Public Utility 
Commission generally allows each gas utility to increase gas rates based on the necessary 
expenditure to keep gas systems operational. Increased utility expenditures on the gas system are 
therefore expected to lead to escalating consumer costs that will likely impact low-income 
households significantly.14 Without any building electrification or renewable gas use, the cost of 
natural gas is expected to double from approximately $1.5 per therm to $3 - $19 per therm by 2050 
depending on how the transition is managed.15 Upgrading buildings to all-electric is also an 
opportunity to complete other building upgrades such as air sealing and insulation, which can 
reduce energy costs and improve affordability. 
▪
Resilience: When coupled with solar and battery energy storage, all-electric buildings can mitigate 
impacts of power outages. While many people think having gas appliances provides a redundant 
system during power outages, gas appliances like water heaters, stoves, and space heaters typically 
cannot function without electricity to power the fans and controls needed for operation. Clean back-
up power is therefore an important asset when the utility grid is down. More local solar and battery 
storage is also good for grid resilience in the region. Electrification provides an opportunity for 
increased investment in the electrical grid and improved local resiliency in a safe and healthy way. 
For example, pairing heat pump HVAC units with good air filtration and home weatherization can 
protect residents from wildfire smoke during fires.
▪
High-road Local Jobs: New electrification policies and requirements support opportunities for new 
local jobs and existing local businesses in construction, building trades, and the green economy. A 
UCLA Luskin Center analysis found that a statewide transition to all-electric buildings could support 
more than 100,000 construction jobs and 4,9000 manufacturing jobs annually for 25 years, driving 
significant increases in employment in the electricity industry.16 
11 California Air Resources Board. 2016 SIP Emission Projection Data: 2012 Estimated Annual Average Emissions.
https://www.arb.ca.gov/ei/emissiondata.htm
12 Dedoussi, I. C., Eastham, S. D., Monier, E., & Barrett, S. R. (2020). Premature mortality related to United States 
cross-state air pollution. Nature, 578(7794), 261-265.
13 Ahrens, M. & Evarts, B. (2018). Natural Gas and Propane Fires, Explosions and Leaks Estimates and Incident 
Descriptions. NationalFire Protection Association. https://www.nfpa.org/-/media/Files/News-and-Research/Fire-
statistics-and-reports/Hazardousmaterials/osNaturalGasPropaneFires.
14 3 Energy and Environmental Economics, Inc. (2020). The Challenge of Retail Gas in California’s Low-Carbon 
Future. California Energy Commission. https://www.energy.ca.gov/sites/default/files/2021-06/CEC-500-2019-055-
F.pdf
15 Gridworks. (2019). California’s Gas System in Transition: Equitable, Affordable, Decarbonized and Smaller. 
https://gridworks.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/09/CA_Gas_System_in_Transition.pdf
16 UCLA Luskin Center. 2019. https://innovation.luskin.ucla.edu/2019/11/13/move-to-all-electric-buildings-will-
trigger-significant-demand-for-skilled-workers/
53 of 332

--- page 54 ---
Electrify San Mateo 
Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy 
Page 6
▪
Greenhouse Gas Reduction: Gas usage in buildings (including upstream and end use methane 
leakage) accounted for 31% of the City of San Mateo’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in 2019.17 
The proportion of emissions coming from gas is projected to increase through 2030 and 2045 as 
emissions from electricity decline, and eventually reach zero due to State targets to provide 100% 
carbon-free electricity to by 2045.18 This means that any appliance converted from gas to electric 
will have GHG-free operations by 2045. Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) already provides the vast 
majority of the City’s electricity for commercial and residential customers, with a goal of providing 
100% renewable energy to match demand (‘24/7 renewable energy’) by 2025.19 Electrifying existing 
buildings, reducing GHG emissions produced by natural gas use in buildings, will be critical in 
achieving the GHG reduction targets set by San Mateo’s CAP, which aim for an emissions reduction 
of 40% below 1990 levels by 2030 and 85% below 1990 levels by 2045, consistent with the state’s 
goals. 
Equity Criteria
City of San Mateo’s Understanding of Equity 
The Equity Criteria drafted here builds off the work done by the City of San Mateo’s Diversity, Equity, 
and Inclusion Committee, and draws inspiration from equity work conducted in conjunction with its 
housing element from 2022, the DEI Strategic Framework Report, and City Council resolution work. The 
local understanding of equity includes:  
•
Promote infill development and socioeconomic equity, protect environmental and agricultural 
resources, encourage efficient development patterns and achieving greenhouse gas emissions 
reduction targets (Statutory Framework, Lets Talk Housing, San Mateo County, 2021)20 
•
The City of San Mateo defines equity as “Fair treatment, access, opportunity, and advancement 
for all people. To create conditions that allow all to reach their full potential. One’s identity 
cannot predict the outcome.” (DEI Committee)21
•
Housing element feedback from 2022 includes highest equity priorities for San Mateo to focus 
on included prevention of evictions, support for houselessness, and more education and 
programmatic support for low-income residents22. 
•
The DEI Strategic Framework includes a goal to “Proactively address inequity by undoing all 
forms of systemic or environmental bias, discrimination, and harassment, which impact quality 
of life.” (DEI Strategic Framework)
17 2019 RICAPS GHG Inventory Update
18https://www.energy.ca.gov/sb100#:~:text=Senate%20Bill%20(SB)%20100%20established,end%2Duse%20custom
ers%20by%202045.
19 https://www.peninsulacleanenergy.com/power-mix/
20 https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/85088/Lets-Talk-Housing---All-About-RHNA-4-21-
2021---Presentation-Slides?bidId=
21  https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/90987/DEI-Strategic-Plan
22 https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/86889/Fair-Housing-Workshop-Discussion-and-Poll-
Summary-from-1-13-2022?bidId=
54 of 332

--- page 55 ---
Electrify San Mateo 
Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy 
Page 7
The City of San Mateo has taken strong stances through two Council Resolutions denouncing 
stigmatization of hateful racism and xenophobia, and declarations of black lives matter in 2020. 
However, there is no current sustainability-focused definition of Equity in relation to building 
electrification.
Defining Equity in Building Electrification 
The concept of Energy Equity recognizes that disadvantaged communities have been historically 
marginalized and overburdened by pollution, underinvestment in clean energy infrastructure, and lack 
of access to energy efficient housing and transportation (Department of Energy, Office of Energy 
Efficiency and Renewable Energy)23. The initial draft of the equity criteria proposed for the Sustainable 
Buildings Strategy for the City’s consideration are included below and draw primarily off existing 
resources like the Department of Energy Rocky Mountain Institute, and Greenlining Institute. These 
equity criteria should be updated based on feedback gained through community outreach and 
engagement, especially with feedback from renters, disadvantaged communities, and small local 
businesses. Every policy pathway included in the Sustainable Buildings Strategy should incorporate the 
following equity criteria: 
▪
Ensure Equitable Access to Health, Safety, and Comfort Benefits: Ensure renters24 and 
environmental justice communities have equitable access to the health, safety, and comfort benefits 
from building electrification, like improved indoor air quality and cooling for hot days. This means 
prioritizing electrification of lower income homes, even though electrifying lower income homes 
may require preliminary, and potentially more complex, energy efficiency and electrical upgrades 
due to the legacies of decades of racist housing policy and disinvestment reflected in housing stock 
in the City.25
▪
Encourage Concurrent Housing Condition Improvements: Ensure that low-income communities 
have equitable access to solar installation, energy efficiency, building envelope upgrades, and lead 
23 https://www.energy.gov/eere/energy-equity-and-environmental-justice
24 It is expected that renters will need financial support for access to high-quality upgrades and the benefits of 
electrification due to the “split incentive” issue of building electrification in rental units. The split incentive 
between property owners and renters refers to the issue that renters may want to experience the benefits of 
electrification but do not own the building and therefore, may not experience the benefits of electrifying long term 
and have reduced incentive to electrify. On the other hand, because property owners will not experience the 
benefits of electrification themselves, they also have reduced incentive to electrify.
25 Rocky Mountain Institute. Oct 2021. Decarbonizing Homes: Improving Health in Low-Income Communities 
through Beneficial Electrification. Because of decades of discriminatory housing practices and disinvestment (ex. 
Redlining), low-income, and BIPOC (Black, Indigenous, People of Color) populations disproportionately experience 
lack of secure housing tenure, proportionately lower rates of home ownership, and poor-quality housing that 
introduces poor ventilation, pests, moisture, water, and higher energy bills. For these reasons, degraded housing 
stock, and its disproportionate overlap with low-income and BIPOC residents, may be considered ‘difficult to 
electrify’. Electrification upgrades for degraded housing stock may be more ‘difficult’ for degraded and disinvested 
housing stock as they may first require holistic building upgrades to high-performance building envelopes, panel 
upgrades, and ventilation upgrades that newer, invested housing stock does not require. Without these efficiency 
upgrades, energy bills could be proportionately more expensive, increasing the cost of energy to run appliances for 
households that are already energy burdened.
55 of 332

--- page 56 ---
Electrify San Mateo 
Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy 
Page 8
and asbestos abatement at the time that electrification retrofits occur. Electrification of a building 
provides opportunities for other whole-building improvements that may come with additional up-
front costs but would otherwise be more expensive to implement separately. These opportunities 
for concurrent whole-building improvements should be financially accessible for low-income 
populations.
▪
Advance Energy Equity: Ensure that building electrification supports access to affordable energy for 
all community members, especially disadvantaged communities, renters, and small businesses. This 
includes affordable utility bills, equitable access to funding and financing mechanisms for 
electrification, and the agency to avoid increasing future natural gas prices.
▪
Support High-Road Job Opportunities: Ensure disadvantaged communities have access to fairly paid 
high-road training and job opportunities as a result of the increased need for an electrification-
trained workforce.
▪
Maximize Ease of Installation: Ensure that incentives and programs for the community create 
meaningful support for renters and disadvantaged communities and include a simple process that 
minimizes the burdens and impacts associated with the installation of high-quality electric 
equipment. 
▪
Promote Affordable Housing and Prevent Renter Displacement: Ensure electrification upgrades do 
not displace renters, result in increased rents, or overburden homeowners. Programs should 
support housing production, housing preservation, and tenant protection. Programs should also 
protect against the displacement of small local businesses and organizations.
Effectiveness Criteria
In addition to being equitable, the Sustainable Buildings Strategy must be effective. Broader 
“effectiveness criteria” are used in addition to the equity criteria to ensure that the benefits of 
electrification are fully realized and do not come at the cost of other City priorities and projects and do 
not harm residents and business owners. These criteria or goals should also align with feedback from 
the community. Similar to the application of the equity criteria, policy pathways and their associated 
actions will be evaluated against the effectiveness criteria to identify and prevent gaps in the 
electrification approach. Each policy pathway should include at least one action that directly addresses 
each of the effectiveness criteria. The initial draft of the community goals proposed for the Sustainable 
Buildings Strategy for the City’s consideration are:
▪
Cost-effective: Ensure that costs associated with new requirements are minimized or offset through 
funding and financing strategies for residents and business owners and efficiently use limited City, 
PCE, and other resources.
▪
Feasible: Ensure that electrification policies effectively reflect the most up-to-date electrification 
practices and regulatory requirements, considering long-term legal viability and thus; enforceability 
by the City
▪
Measurable and Sustained Impact: Ensure that electrification policies are impactful and enforceable 
and will provide evidence-based results of greenhouse gas emission reduction over the long-term.
▪
Reliable: Ensure that energy security and reliability are preserved or improved throughout the 
community in the long-term.
56 of 332

--- page 57 ---
Electrify San Mateo 
Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy 
Page 9
▪
Enforceable: allowing for continued City monitoring and enforcement of selected electrification 
policy 
Conclusion and Next Steps
As part of the analysis framework development process, Rincon requests that the City of San Mateo 
review the proposed draft framework to identify changes or additions that should be made to meet the 
needs of the community. Updates to the electrification co-benefits, equity, and effectiveness criteria will 
be shared during future community engagement events and efforts associated with development of the 
Sustainable Buildings Strategy, and community feedback on the effectiveness criteria will be requested 
as part of that effort. Upon receipt of community feedback, the effectiveness criteria will be finalized 
and utilized to evaluate, modify, and improve the equity and effectiveness of the initiatives and actions 
to be included in the Sustainable Buildings Strategy.
57 of 332

--- page 58 ---
Rincon Consultants, Inc.
449 15th Street, Suite 303
Oakland, California 94612
510-834-4455
www.rinconconsultants.com
July 24, 2023, Updated August 24, 2023
Project No: 23-14014
Andrea Chow
Sustainability Analyst
City of San Mateo
City Manager’s Office
330 West 20th Ave. 
San Mateo, California, 94403
Via email: achow@cityofsanmateo.org 
Subject: Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
Building for the Future – City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy (Version 2)
*Version 2 applies updated PCE Incentives (-$1,000 from previous memo) as of 08.24.2023 
to electrification marginal costs, and cost savings listed in this memo
Dear Ms. Chow:
To develop an equitable, implementable, and effective Sustainable Building Strategy 
(SBS), the City of San Mateo (City) first needs to understand the existing building stock 
and energy usage and develop estimates for the various costs associated with building 
electrification.1 Part of this analysis includes investigating the up-front appliance costs2 for 
electrification, the cost of other upgrades that may be required to convert energy usage 
in buildings from gas to electricity, the financial incentives currently available for this work, 
as well as existing conditions of the building stock within the City and other practical 
opportunities or barriers to electrification of existing buildings. To answer questions about 
up-front costs, available incentives, existing conditions, and other opportunities and 
barriers, in collaboration with the City, Rincon completed a meta-analysis of existing cost 
studies and reviewed several electrification project case studies which have been 
completed within the City and County of San Mateo. This memo summarizes the 
information gathered from these reviews and case studies. 
This memo is intended to be used in developing educational materials for the community 
and informing future policy development. Data in this report was summarized from 
existing sources, some of which are not specific to the City of San Mateo. However, the 
findings are of sufficient scale and accuracy to help guide this process but not intended 
as an accurate interpretation of the final cost of electrification for any one building in the 
City. This memo includes the following pieces of analysis, which is organized according 
to San Mateo building stock categories: Single Family Homes and Low-Rise Multifamily, 
and *Note that IRA incentives take the form of tax credits, while other rebates can be applied upfront by 
1 Building electrification refers to the replacement of gas-fired equipment or appliances in a building with electric 
equipment or appliances.
2 Up-front costs include the cost to buy a new appliance and have it installed by qualified personnel. Up-front costs 
include additional costs that may come with other upgrades needed to make installation of the new appliance possible 
(e.g., installation of new wiring to install an electric stove, where there was previously only a gas hookup).
58 of 332

--- page 59 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
2
the building owner or contractor after completing program documentation requirements. Please refer to 
Table 6 for a full summary of rebates and incentives by funder.
High-Rise Multifamily and Nonresidential Building. 
•
Part 1: Residential Building Segmentation Analysis
o
Building Stock 
o
Building Vintage 
o
Appliance and Fuel Source Analysis
•
Part 2: High-Rise Multifamily and Commercial Building Segmentation Analysis
o
Building Stock 
o
Building Vintage 
o
Appliance and Fuel Source Analysis
•
Part 3: Residential and Commercial Buildings Electrification Cost Analysis 
o
Upfront Residential Costs 
▪
Incentives for Electrification 
▪
Gas-for-Gas Scenario 
▪
Gas-to-Electric Scenario 
▪
Gas-to-Electric Scenario (marginal costs) 
▪
Costs to Electrify Scenario (marginal costs- incentives) 
▪
Commercial Building Cost Analysis 
o
Description of Building Electrification Costs Overview
▪
Single Family Electrification Cost Discussion
▪
Baseline Scenario: Gas to Gas Appliance Replacement 
▪
Electrification Scenario: Gas to Electric 
▪
Electrification Incentives Overview
▪
Electrification Scenario + Incentives 
▪
Applicability to low-rise multifamily
o
High-Rise Multifamily and Nonresidential Buildings Electrification Cost 
Discussion
▪
Cost Considerations
▪
Package Unit Opportunity
▪
Current Incentives
o
On Bill Costs – analysis pending
This memorandum’s costs and building energy usage will be updated to reflect the 
current data as additional information becomes more available through project 
development. Once finalized, this memo will also serve as a technical appendix to the 
final Sustainable Buildings Strategy.
59 of 332

--- page 60 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
3
Note that an on-bill cost analysis is currently being completed by Peninsula Clean Energy 
(PCE) and will be incorporated into future analyses and policy development when it is 
made available to the Project Team. 
PART 1: RESIDENTIAL BUILDING SEGMENTATION ANALYSIS 
Single Family Homes and Low-Rise Multifamily Building 
Segmentation Analysis 
For this analysis, single family homes and low rise (3 stories and under) multifamily are 
discussed together. This is because they generally utilize similar equipment and share 
similar costs for electrification. These building types include single family, duplex, 
townhouse, rowhouse, and parcels with multiple single unit/duplex buildings. 
Commercial and high rise (over 3 stories) buildings are discussed in a later section. 
Significance of Building Vintage
Building vintage3 can be used to provide a sense of the technologies employed in a 
particular building. While vintage does not tell us if updates have been made, it does 
provide some idea of potential hurdles that might be faced when completing 
electrification work. Based on anecdotal evidence, buildings constructed after 1970 are 
more likely to have electric panels of 100 amps or more instead of lower amp panels or 
fuse boxes which may require upgrades and may impede electrification work. A 
significant number (70%) of San Mateo’s single-family homes were built before 1970 and 
could potentially need panel upgrades or other electrical work prior to full electrification 
as shown in Figure 1. However, progress on and availability of circuit sharing technologies 
and retrofit ready (120 volt) heat pump products continues to lower the number of 
buildings which require panel upgrades. Adding an electric vehicle (EV) also increases 
the chance of needing a panel or service upgrade which should be considered when 
looking at whole home electrification. 
Building Segmentation Analysis
According to the parcel data obtained from San Mateo County, there are 
approximately 96,800 single family residential buildings within the City of San Mateo. The 
years in which they were built (building vintage) are included in Figure 1.
3 Building vintage refers to the age (‘vintage’) of the building, based on the approximate date it was built. 
60 of 332

--- page 61 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
4
Figure 1
Number of Single-Family Residential Buildings Built by Year in the City of 
San Mateo
Data Source: San Mateo County Parcel Data
In addition, there are approximately 12,100 multifamily buildings. The breakdown of 
buildings by type is included in Figure 2. No building vintage data for multifamily buildings 
was available at the time of drafting this report. 
Figure 2
Multifamily Housing in the City of San Mateo
Data Source: San Mateo County Parcel Data
66,950
27,544
2,270
-
10,000
20,000
30,000
40,000
50,000
60,000
70,000
80,000
1970 or earlier
1970-2010
2010 or newer
Number of Buildings
-
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
Duplex
Triplex
FourPlex
Five or more units
Other
Number of Buildings
61 of 332

--- page 62 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
5
Appliance and Fuel Source Analysis 
To better understand where natural gas is being used in San Mateo’s buildings, an 
appliance fuel source analysis was completed using existing data provided by PCE. The 
data provided by PCE leveraged the Residential Appliance Saturation Survey (RASS) for 
Climate Zone 3 for most appliance types with the exception of heating fuel source.4 
Heating fuel source data was based on the American Community Survey which utilizes 
specific San Mateo County Data.5 Heating system types were pulled from the RASS Study 
but normalized using American Community Survey (ACS) fuel source data which is more 
specific to San Mateo County. This normalization process weighted fuel types more 
heavily towards the ACS results for fuel types but utilizes the relevant equipment types 
from the RASS. This data is not specific to the City of San Mateo but provides a good 
understanding of the fuel and appliance types common in the region. Based on this 
analysis, most gas consumption in residential buildings comes from space and water 
heating, as shown in Figure 3.
4 The California Residential Appliance Saturation Study (RASS) is a comprehensive look at residential energy 
use. The California Energy Commission (CEC) manages the study, which is based on the California Home 
Energy Survey. The survey collects information from residents about appliances, heating and cooling 
equipment, electric vehicles, and energy.
5 The American Community Survey (ACS) detailed population and housing information and is intended to 
helps local officials, community leaders, and businesses understand the changes taking place in their 
communities.
62 of 332

--- page 63 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
6
Figure 3
2019 California Residential End Use Survey Gas Consumption
Data Source: California End Use Survey (CEUS)
Water Heating Fuel Types
In San Mateo County the vast majority of water heaters run on natural gas (though most 
gas water heaters also require electricity to operate) as shown in Figure 4.6 Multifamily 
buildings have the largest percentage of electric water heating. A small percentage of 
buildings within the county also run on bottled gas (propane), but these buildings are 
likely to be in the unincorporated areas away from natural gas infrastructure. 
6 https://www.schnellerair.com/blog/shower-during-power-outage/  
63 of 332

--- page 64 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
7
Figure 4
Water Heater Fuel Types by Building Type in San Mateo County
Data Source: Residential Appliance Saturation Survey (RASS) 
As shown in Figure 5, most of the water heaters in San Mateo County are standard gas 
fired water heaters, especially in single family homes. Whole house tankless gas water 
heaters are the next most common followed by standard electric resistance water 
heaters, tankless electric varieties and heat pumps. Different types of water heaters will 
have different space and cost impacts on operations. This detail will likely be building 
specific. However, standard gas tank water heaters are most common and can be 
replaced by heat pump tank water heaters in most scenarios. 
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
120%
Single family 
owned
Single family 
rented
Multifamily rent
Multifamily 
condo
Mobile homes
Gas Water Heater
Electric Water Heater
Bottled Gas Water Heater
Percent Adoption By Appliance 
Type
64 of 332

--- page 65 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
8
Figure 5: Water Heater System Counts by Building Type in San Mateo County
Data Source: Residential Appliance Saturation Survey (RASS) 
Furnace Types
Space heating is the second largest gas consumption device in residential buildings. 
Space heating in San Mateo County sees a much broader use of electric appliances 
especially in multifamily rentals and multifamily condos, as shown in Figure 6. Single family 
owned and rented buildings still use gas most commonly. Some wood and propane use 
is seen within the County, but is most likely in the unincorporated regions. 
Figure 6
Space Heating Fuel Types by Building Type in San Mateo County
-
20,000
40,000
60,000
80,000
100,000
120,000
140,000
160,000
Single family 
owned
Single family 
rented
Multifamily rent
Multifamily 
condo
Mobile homes
standard tank gas water heater
whole house tankless gas water heater
standard tank electric water heater
heat pump electric water heater
whole house tankless electric water heater
point of use tankless electric water heater
standard tank propane water heater
whole house tankless propane water heater
NUmber of Appliances
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
Single family 
owned
Single family 
rented
Multifamily rent
Multifamily 
condo
Mobile homes
Utility gas
Electricity
Propane
Wood
Percent Adoption by 
Appliance Type
65 of 332

--- page 66 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
9
Data Source: Residential Appliance Saturation Survey (RASS) 
As shown in Figure 7, central gas furnaces are the most common space heating system 
type in the County, driven primarily by single family buildings. Currently, most electric 
space heating is electric resistance in both single and multifamily buildings. Different 
types of furnaces will have different space and cost impacts on operations. This detail will 
likely be building specific. However, central gas furnaces are most common and can be 
replaced by central air source heat pumps in most scenarios. These heat pumps also 
provide air conditioning. 
Figure 7
Space Heating System Counts by Building Type in San Mateo County
Data Source: Residential Appliance Saturation Survey (RASS) 
Air Conditioning Prevalence and Type 
Most residential buildings in San Mateo County do not have air conditioning. Those that 
do, mostly single-family owned homes, use central AC. The lack of air conditioning within 
the County is important to note as projected increases in temperatures related to climate 
change may increase the need for air conditioning installations as a resilience measure. 
This represents an important opportunity for buildings to use a “two-way” air-conditioning 
system or heat pump. When considering the cost of both a furnace and air conditioner, 
a heat pump is significantly less expensive (see cost analysis below). 
0
100,000
200,000
300,000
400,000
500,000
600,000
700,000
Central gas 
furnace
Floor/wall 
gas furnace
Other gas 
heating 
Electric 
resistance
Central 
electric 
furnace
Heat pump
Other 
electric 
heating
Propane
Wood
Single family owned
Single family rented
Multifamily rent
Multifamily condo
Mobile homes
Number of Appliances
66 of 332

--- page 67 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
10
Figure 8
Air Conditioning System Counts by Building Type in San Mateo County 
Data Source: Residential Appliance Saturation Survey (RASS) 
Stove Types
Within San Mateo County, gas and propane (bottled gas) fueled units make up 
approximately 60% of all stoves while electric units make up the remaining 40% as shown 
in Figure 9
. Electric stoves are most common in multifamily rental units.
Figure 9
   Stoves Fuel Type by Building Type in San Mateo County
Data Source: Residential Appliance Saturation Survey (RASS) 
-
20,000
40,000
60,000
80,000
100,000
120,000
140,000
160,000
Single 
family 
owned
Single 
family 
rented
Multifamily 
rent
Multifamily 
condo
Mobile 
homes
No A/C
Multiple A/C Types
Room A/C only
Central Evap Cooler only
Central A/C only
Number of Buildings With AC Type
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
120%
Single family 
owned
Single family 
rented
Multifamily rent
Multifamily 
condo
Mobile homes
Natural Gas
Electricity
Bottled Gas
Percent Adoption by Appliance 
Type
 
67 of 332

--- page 68 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
11
Figure 10 shows the total number of residential stoves in San Mateo County by fuel type 
and building type. Gas stoves are most common in single family units while multifamily 
units tend to use electric. 
Figure 10 Stove Counts by Building Type in San Mateo County
Data Source: Residential Appliance Saturation Survey (RASS) 
Clothes Dryer Types
Most residential buildings in San Mateo County have a clothes dryer with dryers being 
most common in single family units. Electric clothes dryers make up nearly 40% of all dryer 
use, while only 27% are gas. The remaining 34% of units do not have a dryer on site 
according to the RASS data. 
-
20,000
40,000
60,000
80,000
100,000
120,000
140,000
160,000
Single family 
owned
Single family 
rented
Multifamily 
rent
Multifamily 
condo
Mobile homes
Electricity
Natural Gas
Number of Appliances
68 of 332

--- page 69 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
12
Figure 11 Clothes Dryer Counts by Building Type in San Mateo County
 
Data Source: Residential Appliance Saturation Survey (RASS) 
Pools
Approximately 849 residential buildings (4%) have pools within the City of San Mateo, 
according to PCE. Pools in the City of San Mateo are likely to be heated using gas. 
PART 2: HIGH-RISE MULTIFAMILY AND COMMERCIAL BUILDING 
SEGMENTATION ANALYSIS 
Commercial Buildings and High-Rise Multifamily Building 
Segmentation Analysis
Total commercial buildings (1,244 individual buildings) segregated by type based on San 
Mateo County parcel data are shown in Figure 12. The most common commercial 
building type in San Mateo is office followed by retail. Mixed use, auto sales, and 
warehouses make up the next most common building by total count. 
-
20,000
40,000
60,000
80,000
100,000
120,000
140,000
160,000
Single family 
owned
Single family 
rented
Multifamily 
rent
Multifamily 
condo
Mobile homes
No Dryer
Electricity
Natural Gas
Number of Appliances
69 of 332

--- page 70 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
13
Figure 12 Commercial Buildings by Type in the City of San Mateo
Data Source: San Mateo County Parcel Data
Data on commercial building energy usage by appliance/end use specific to San Mateo 
or San Mateo County was not available at the time of this memorandum’s analysis. 
However, the California Energy Commission published the 2006 California Commercial 
End-Use Survey (CEUS) which details statewide commercial energy use. An updated 
2018-2022 CEUS is likely to be released soon, though it is currently delayed due to COVID-
19 related impacts. Therefore, the 2016 CEUS is the most up-to-date information available 
on California’s commercial building energy consumption. CEUS filters results by utility 
which allows for some refinement, compared to the statewide results. The PG&E results 
are summarized below. The full report is no longer on the CEC website, but can be found 
here.7 
Within the PG&E service area there are just under 2 billion square feet of commercial floor 
space. The building types with the largest floor area are miscellaneous with 23%, large 
offices with 15% and retail with 14%. Total natural gas usage from these buildings is 
estimated at 565 Million therms per year with three building types representing over 54% 
of total natural gas usage: restaurants (21%) miscellaneous (20%) and health (13%). Total 
electricity and gas usage by end use are shown in Figure 13 and Figure 14, respectively. 
7 https://planning.lacity.org/eir/CrossroadsHwd/deir/files/references/C19.pdf
291
268
144
122
108
84
51
50
39
45
42
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
Office/Professional Building
Retail
Mixed Use
Auto Sales/Repair
Warehouse
Industrial/MFG
Churches
Hotels, Nursing Homes, Guest House
Resturants 
Education
Other
Number of Buildings
70 of 332

--- page 71 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
14
Figure 13  Commercial Electricity by End Use (2006 CEUS)
Figure 14 Commercial Gas Consumption by End Use
28.9%
14.8%
12.4%
12.4%
8.2%
5.9%
5.2%
4.6%
3.8%
1.8%
0.9%
0.8%
0.3%
0.0%
5.0%
10.0%
15.0%
20.0%
25.0%
30.0%
35.0%
Interior Lighting
Refrigeration
Ventilation
Cooling
Office Equipment
Miscellaneous
Exterior Lighting
Cooking
Motors
Heating
Air Compressors
Water Heating
Process
Space Heating, 44%
Water Heating, 30%
Cooking, 20%
Process, 5%
Miscellaneous, 1%
Cooling, 1%
Space Heating
Water Heating
Cooking
Process
Miscellaneous
Cooling
71 of 332

--- page 72 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
15
As shown in the figures above, gas is the predominant energy source for commercial 
space and water heating with less than 1% of all electricity being used for commercial 
water heating and less than 2% of electricity being used for space heating. 
Commercial Space and Water Heating Types
The CEUS does not provide energy consumption by type of space and water heating 
equipment. However, PCE did provide data on equipment prevalence for commercial 
buildings based on Commercial Saturation Survey (CSS). Commercial Heating Ventilation 
and, Air Conditioning (HVAC) equipment types for San Mateo County are included in 
Figure 15. The majority of HVAC equipment are packaged single zone (SZ) furnaces with 
cooling, which are also the easiest to electrify. 
Figure 15 Commercial Space Heating Equipment Prevalence by Type in San Mateo 
County (PCE)
Data Source: PCE 2035 Decarbonization Plan
PCE also provided information on commercial water heating. Water heating 
equipment is broken down into five categories with a mix of both gas and electric 
appliances being present in commercial buildings within the County. Most of these 
systems are natural gas tank water heaters, as shown in 
Figure 16.
72 of 332

--- page 73 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
16
Figure 16 Commercial Water Heating Equipment Prevalence by Type in San Mateo 
County (PCE)
Data Source: PCE 2035 Decarbonization Plan
PART 3: RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS 
ELECTRIFICATION COST ANALYSIS
Electrification Up-Front Costs - Single-Family and Low-Rise 
Multifamily Buildings 
Up-front costs include the costs to purchase an appliance, install it, and make it 
operational. Up-front costs to electrify were analyzed using the most recent and location 
specific data available. Third party vetted sources from local government and 
community choice aggregator (CCA) reports and data sets specific to the City and 
County of San Mateo were used for most data sources. Sources for each data set used 
in the analysis are summarized in 
Table 1 below. 
For most up-front costs, median install values were selected to inform the cost analysis. 
Using median costs helped remove outlier quotes from contractors, which would have 
influenced the average value. Quotes for some equipment, such as HVAC units, could 
vary by as much as $15,000 for the same project. 
Where there are exceptions to this data filtering process, due to missing data, data 
substitution methods will be clarified in the relevant cell of the analysis.
73 of 332

--- page 74 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
17
Table 1 Data Sources Analyzed for Single Family Cost Analysis
Author/Source
Source Description
Analysis Use and Considerations
Peninsula Clean Energy 
(PCE)
2035 Decarbonization Feasibility 
Analysis & Plan: Complete Analysis 
and Draft Plan (September 2022)8
Electric and gas appliance installation 
costs, including wiring, appliance cost, 
labor, and markup. 
Commercial rooftop package unit cost 
data. 
Josie Gaillard & Tom 
Kabat via funding from 
BayREN & County of 
San Mateo Office of 
Sustainability 
Decarbonizing Single Family Homes 
(January 2023)9
Single-Family Home 
Decarbonization Case Study: San 
Mateo 1-Story Home (March 2023)10
Electric and gas appliance installation 
costs (all-cost inclusive), based on 
specific equipment and models, bids 
for 10 homes under consideration as 
part of cumulative case study. 
One City of San Mateo Single-Family 
Home case study analyzed. 
BayREN Contractor 
Install Dataset
BayREN Contractor-Input Raw Data 
for Electric Appliance Installation 
(Excel), filtered for most recent year 
input (2022)
This raw data source was also used to 
inform the PCE 2035 Decarbonization 
Feasibility Analysis and Plan
TECH Clean California 
Install Dataset
TECH Clean California Install 
Dataset-Input Raw Data for Electric 
Appliance Installation (Excel), 
filtered for most recent year input 
(2022)
This raw data source was also used to 
inform the PCE 2035 Decarbonization 
Feasibility Analysis and Plan
Note: Existing datasets and reports did not cover the cost of air conditioning (both appliance and installation), which 
was found using desktop research (Angie’s List), filtering for location-specific costs11
Low Rise Multifamily Applicability 
In general, the costs for single family homes and the costs per unit for low rise multifamily 
homes (3 stories and under) will be similar. Low rise multifamily homes tend to use similar 
equipment and one piece of equipment (such as a hot water heater or furnace can 
serve one or multiple units). In some low-rise multifamily units there may be a single larger 
piece of equipment shared between multiple units (an example would be an 80 gallon 
hot water heater being used by both units in a duplex). Therefore, the per unit costs for 
electrification in Table 3 are assumed to be conservative for multifamily buildings which 
use residential (as opposed to commercial) sized equipment. High rise multifamily homes 
(over 3 stories) look more like commercial buildings with a wide variety of equipment and 
the potential for larger centralized systems, which will be described further in *Note that IRA 
incentives take the form of tax credits, while other rebates can be applied upfront by the building owner or 
contractor after completing program documentation requirements. Please refer to Table 6 for a full summary 
of rebates and incentives by funder.
High-Rise Multifamily and Nonresidential Building Costs. 
8 https://www.peninsulacleanenergy.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/2022.09-BOD-2035-Decarb-Plan-Complete-
Analysis-Draft-Plan-1.pdf
9 https://www.smcsustainability.org/wp-content/uploads/Decarbonizing-Single-Family-Homes.pdf
10 https://www.smcsustainability.org/energy-water/decarbonizing-homes/cost-plans/
11 https://www.angi.com/articles/how-much-does-installing-new-ac-cost.htm
74 of 332

--- page 75 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
18
Up-Front Costs for Electrification 
•
Key figure highlight: Whole home electrification could be less expensive for 
building owners in San Mateo than replacing appliances with gas once 
rebates are included.
o
Full-home appliance replacement with new gas appliances: 
$11,012 - $18,51212
o
Before incentives: Full-home appliance replacement with new 
electric appliances13 marginal cost: $13,291- $20,93614
o
After incentives: Full-home appliance (no AC) replacement with 
new electric appliances marginal cost: +$709 in cost savings – 
$4,83615 and get the benefit of air conditioning. 
o
After incentives: Homes with AC + Furnace that need replacing 
could save up to $2,665
To understand the up-front costs of electrification, Rincon gathered data through existing 
analysis described in 
Table 1 to determine the cost to install new gas appliances as well as new electric 
appliances. These costs were all-inclusive, incorporating wiring upgrades, labor costs, 
appliance costs, permitting, and contractor markup. 
Rincon assumed that in an electrification scenario for a home, switching any gas 
appliances to an electric appliance would only occur if the gas appliance no longer 
functioned or was due for replacement (‘burnout’), for other consumer preference 
reasons (ex. public health, climate consciousness), or was voluntarily upgraded to a 
modern electric option. Because of this electrify on replacement scenario, Rincon further 
determined the marginal cost of the electrification scenario by comparing: 
•
Gas to gas “like for like” scenario- an old gas appliance is replaced with a new 
similar gas appliance. 
•
Gas to electric “electrification” scenario- an old gas appliance is replaced with 
a new similar electric appliance. 
The marginal cost is the difference between the electrification scenario, and the gas to 
gas, or “like for like” scenario. By focusing on the time of replacement the cost of 
electrification is the difference between a standard gas replacement and an electric 
upgrade. While some building owners may opt to replace their appliances before 
burnout in order to gain the benefits of electrification (improved air quality, lower GHG 
emissions, bill savings) most people are expected to wait until burnout to replace their 
appliances. Therefore, while both gross and marginal costs are included in this 
12 Low scenario does not include AC, high scenario does include AC (in addition to a gas powered furnace)
13 Also known as ‘electrification’
14 This scenario does not include air conditioning, which would subtract $7,500 from both scenarios as a heat pump 
would displace the need to install an AC in addition to a gas fired furnace. 
15 Low scenario = Total costs with no panel upgrade with low-cost HVAC scenario and no AC, median HVAC scenario
75 of 332

--- page 76 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
19
memorandum, the marginal cost described in detail in Table 7 7 should be the focus for 
determining cost effectiveness.
In reviewing the San Mateo existing data, there were four key factors that determine 
costs for home electrification that were apparent in the literature and data: 
•
Avoiding panel upgrades through a watt diet16, panel management, or home 
electrification plan could result in significant savings ($3,700) for home 
electrification, though building owners may want to consider that installing 
future charging capacity for an electric vehicle may necessitate a panel 
upgrade anyway.17
•
HVAC appliance costs and HVAC installation costs made up the largest single 
cost of electrifying a building. The cost range for HVAC installation was also the 
largest with quotes for the same HVAC system ranging by as much as $15,000. 
This variability emphasizes the need to get multiple quotes is very important.18
•
The large cost range for HVAC equipment necessitated the Project Team 
running both a low-cost and median cost for electric heat pump HVAC System, 
which had a $3,944 difference between scenarios. 
•
Labor costs and quotes from contractors are likely the most expensive and 
variable factor in home electrification, not appliance cost.19 
16 Watt Diet refers to the practice of minimizing the peak electricity demand through smart chargers and other 
technology to avoid a panel upgrade. 
17 https://www.smcsustainability.org/energy/decarbonizing-homes/
18 PCE 2035 Decarb Plan Analysis
19 https://www.peninsulacleanenergy.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/2022.01.13-CAC-2035-Decarb-Feasibility-
Plan.pdf
76 of 332

--- page 77 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
20
Electrification Scenario: Gas to Gas “Like for Like” Upfront Costs
In the gas ‘like for like’ scenario (base case), where it is assumed that the building owner 
replaces existing natural gas appliances with new gas-fired appliances, the typical 
whole-home cost in San Mateo, without air conditioning20 is $11,012. Once costs for air 
conditioning are added in, the total projected cost to replace all appliances that run on 
gas plus an AC is $18,512. This analysis demonstrates the amount of money that building 
owners would spend as a baseline if they planned on replacing their appliances. 
These costs describe all up-front costs for installation, appliance, and labor, by taking the 
average of collected median values for appliance types, while aggregating appliance 
types by end use (with the exception of AC, described in the note below Table 2).
Table 2
Like-for-Like Scenario: Replace Gas Appliances with Similar, New Gas 
Appliances (Total Costs) 
Appliance, Install, Wiring
End Use
Median/Average Cost (All Data)
Gas-fired water heater
Water 
Heating
 $2,800 
Gas-fired HVAC system
Space 
Heating
 $6,132 
AC (keep existing furnace) * 
Space 
Cooling
 $7,500 
Gas-fired dryer
Clothes 
Drying
 $925 
Gas-fired stove
Cooking
 $1,155 
Whole-Home Cost w/o AC 
 $11,012 
Whole-Home+ AC
 $18,512 
* Note: Existing datasets and reports did not cover the cost of air conditioning, which was found using desktop 
research (Angie’s List), filtering for location-specific costs by zip code, refers to central air conditioner.21 The air 
conditioner (AC) uses electricity not gas to operate.
Electrification Scenario: Gas to Electric – No Incentives Applied Upfront Cost
In the gas to electric scenario (electric scenario) where it is assumed that the building 
owner replaces existing natural gas appliances with new electric appliances, the total 
whole-home electrification cost to replace all gas-powered appliances with all-electric, 
with no incentives or rebates applied, is: 
Assuming that home electrification does not require an electric panel upgrade22: 
20 According to the 2035 Peninsula Clean Energy Decarbonization Analysis, only 25% of homes in San Mateo County 
have Air Conditioning, with central air conditioning being the most common type of air conditioner. 
21 https://www.angi.com/articles/how-much-does-installing-new-ac-cost.htm
22 As discussed in the BayREN Decarbonizing Single-Family Homes Case Study, potentially costly electric panel upgrades 
are frequently recommended by contractors without first understanding the many potential avenues to avoid this cost 
through maximum usage of existing service capacity. The amp cutoff for electric panel upgrade is widely understood to 
be 100 amps or higher- a building with below 100 amps likely will need a panel upgrade to accommodate all-electric 
appliances. The BayREN Decarbonization Case Study recommends several ways for “panel optimization”, including 
making a whole home electrification plan, and investing in circuit sharing and pausing infrastructure instead of a panel 
upgrade. 
77 of 332

--- page 78 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
21
•
$24,303-$28,248
Assuming that home electrification does require an electric panel upgrade (particularly 
for homes with electric panels less than 100 amps): 
•
$28,003-$31,948
78 of 332

--- page 79 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
22
The difference between both electric panel scenarios described above is the difference 
between the ‘low’ and ‘median’ heat pump scenario, which was broken out to detail 
the significant difference in installation bids for electric heat pump HVAC systems. This 
discrepancy in installation bids from contractors stems from home-specific needs for 
ductwork upgrades, locations to house HVAC systems, and labor costs which are highly 
variable depending on the contractor. These two scenarios show that installation costs 
for HVAC and the potential need for an electric panel upgrade are two of the largest 
influencers of cost in home electrification for the City of San Mateo. 
These costs can be significantly or partially offset by stacked federal 
and local incentives as described in the 
Table 5 Full-Home Electrification (Replace All Appliances with Electric) Marginal Cost 
Scenarios
Full-Home Electrification (replace all appliances with electric) Marginal Cost- No AC Cost 
Savings
Low-Cost Heat Pump (HP) HVAC Scenarios – No AC
Full-home electrification (w/o AC or panel Upgrade)
 $13,291 
Full-home electrification marginal cost (w/o AC with Panel upgrade)
 $16,991 
Median-Cost Heat Pump (HP) HVAC Scenarios – No AC 
Full-home electrification marginal cost (w/o AC or panel upgrade) 
 $17,236 
Full-home electrification marginal cost (w/o AC with Panel upgrade)
 $20,936 
Full-Home Electrification (replace all appliances with electric) Marginal Cost – With AC Cost 
Savings
Full-home electrification, with AC, no panel upgrade, low cost HP 
 $5,791 
Full-home electrification, with AC, no panel upgrade, median cost HP 
 $9,736 
Full-home electrification, with AC, panel upgrade, low cost HP 
 $9,491 
Full-home electrification, with AA, panel upgrade, median cost HP 
 $13,436 
Current Incentives for Electrification section below. Whole home costs for replacing gas 
appliances with electric with no incentives applied are shown below in Table 3,
Table 3 Electrification Scenario: Cost to Replace Gas Appliances with Electric 
Appliances (No Incentives, Total Costs) 
Appliance, Install, Wiring*
End Use
Median/Average 
Cost (All Data)
Electric heat pump water heater
Water Heating
 $6,000 
Space Heating/Cooling - Median 
Scenario 
 $17,910 
Electric heat pump HVAC system (heating and 
cooling) 
Space Heating/Cooling- Low 
Scenario 
 $13,965
Electric dryer
Clothes Drying
 $1,963 
Electric stove
Cooking
 $2,375 
79 of 332

--- page 80 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
23
Panel Upgrade (Only if needed)
Electrical (additional one-time 
costs)
 $3,700 
Low Cost HVAC Scenario: Whole-Home Cost (w/o panel upgrade) 
 $24,303 
Low Cost HVAC Scenario: Whole-Home Cost (+ panel upgrade) 
 $28,003 
Median Cost HVAC Scenario: Whole-Home Cost (w/o panel upgrade) 
 $28,248 
Median Cost HVAC Scenario: Whole-Home Cost (+ panel upgrade) 
 $31,948 
Electrification Scenario: Marginal Costs (Difference Between Gas and Electric Install 
Costs)
‘Marginal costs’ for electrification are at the core of this analysis as they describe the cost 
difference between the assumed investment needed to replace a gas appliance that 
would happen during ‘burnout’ or equipment upgrade with all-electric technologies. Put 
simply, marginal costs describe how much more expensive it would be to go all-electric, 
rather than replace non-functioning appliances with gas. Zeroing out this difference 
between electric and gas install costs would mean that electrifying does not increase 
the cost burden on building owners in San Mateo when compared to the baseline ‘gas 
for gas’ replacement, addressing a key cost and equity hurdle for developing existing 
building electrification policies. 
Assuming that the home electrification scenario replaced a combined furnace and AC 
with a heat pump23 , the marginal cost to electrify (without incentives) would range from: 
•
$5,791-$9,736
23 This would entail subtracting out the additional cost of replacing an AC, as a heat pump provides both heating a 
cooling functions, functionally displacing the need to replace both a gas-powered furnace and an air conditioner under 
the ‘like for like’ scenario
80 of 332

--- page 81 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
24
Assuming that the home electrification scenario does not have AC/does not want AC, 
and also does not require a panel upgrade, marginal costs to electrify before rebates 
would range from: 
•
$13,291-$17,236
o
This cost range for both scenarios is based on the install 
difference between low and median heat pump HVAC systems 
o
If an electric panel upgrade was added, $3,700 would be added 
to each cost range scenario
Marginal costs for replacing gas appliances with electric, with no incentives applied are 
shown below in Table 4 by appliance type and end use, and with different full-home 
electrification scenarios with and without air conditioning cost savings, panel upgrades, 
and low and median cost heat pump scenarios included in Table 5. 
Table 4
Electrification Scenario Marginal Costs (Appliance Level) 
Appliance
End Use
Median/ 
Average Cost
Electric heat pump water heater
Water Heating
 $3,200 
Space Heating/Cooling: Median 
Cost Scenario 
 $11,778 
Without AC: Electric heat pump HVAC system 
Space Heating/Cooling: Low-Cost 
Scenario
 $7,833 
With AC: Electric heat pump HVAC system (heating 
and cooling; replaces need for additional AC) 
Space Heating/ Cooling
 $(7,500)
Electric dryer
Clothes Drying
 $1,038 
Electric stove
Cooking
 $1,220 
Additional One-Time Costs: Panel Upgrade
 $3,700 
Table 5 Full-Home Electrification (Replace All Appliances with Electric) Marginal Cost 
Scenarios
Full-Home Electrification (replace all appliances with electric) Marginal Cost- No AC Cost 
Savings
Low-Cost Heat Pump (HP) HVAC Scenarios – No AC
Full-home electrification (w/o AC or panel Upgrade)
 $13,291 
Full-home electrification marginal cost (w/o AC with Panel upgrade)
 $16,991 
Median-Cost Heat Pump (HP) HVAC Scenarios – No AC 
Full-home electrification marginal cost (w/o AC or panel upgrade) 
 $17,236 
Full-home electrification marginal cost (w/o AC with Panel upgrade)
 $20,936 
Full-Home Electrification (replace all appliances with electric) Marginal Cost – With AC Cost 
Savings
Full-home electrification, with AC, no panel upgrade, low cost HP 
 $5,791 
81 of 332

--- page 82 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
25
Full-home electrification, with AC, no panel upgrade, median cost HP 
 $9,736 
Full-home electrification, with AC, panel upgrade, low cost HP 
 $9,491 
Full-home electrification, with AA, panel upgrade, median cost HP 
 $13,436 
Current Incentives for Electrification 
Depending on project availability, current appliance electrification incentives available 
through the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE), BayREN, TECH 
Clean California when combined make building owners eligible for $21,600 in rebates, 
which are summarized in Table 66. Incentives take the form of both rebates and tax 
incentives. Tax incentives through the IRA require the building owner to have some tax 
burden to reduce. 
Data for existing rebates were collected from most recent online sources on existing 
federal-level (IRA24), local (PCE25, BayREN26, TECH Clean California27) sources of home 
electrification rebates. 
24 https://www.rewiringamerica.org/IRAguide
25 https://www.peninsulacleanenergy.com/residential-programs/
26 https://www.bayren.org/articles-tools-tips/electrification
27 https://switchison.org/
82 of 332

--- page 83 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
26
Table 66 Current Incentives (as of August 2023)
Appliance
End Use
$ Rebate/ Tax 
Credit* Available
Funder 
Notes 
 $3,000 
PCE
Stackable with other incentives, but most cannot exceed cost of 
projects; All PCE- capped at $14,000
 $1,000 
BayRE
N
All BayREN- capped at $7750
Electric heat pump water heater
Water Heating
 $2,000* 
IRA 
Max for IRA 30% heat pump water heater tax incentive ($2000) max, 
must have paid taxes in calendar year. Additional low-middle income 
IRA incentives are upcoming but not included here.
Heat Pump Water Heater Total Stackable 
Rebates and Tax Credits Available 
 $6,000 
 
 
 $3,500 
PCE 
Stackable with other incentives, but most cannot exceed cost of 
projects 
 $1,000 
BayRE
N 
 $2,000*
IRA 
Tax Credit, same as description for electric heat pump water heater
HVAC System 
Space Heating/ 
Cooling
 $1,000 
Tech 
Single family incentives of $1,000 for new heat pump HVAC systems, with 
up to two incentivized systems per home for a total of $2,000; must be a 
TECH-enrolled contractor; project must be a non-heat pump to heat 
pump installation; no new construction, retrofits only; equipment must be 
AHRI matched systems; equipment must meet Title 24 code minimum 
standards.
HVAC System Total Stackable Rebates and Tax 
Credits Available 
 
 $7,500 
 
 
Electric dryer
Clothes Drying
 $250 
BayRE
N
Specifies heat pump clothes dryer 
Electric Dryer Total Stackable Rebates and 
Tax Credits Available 
 
 $250 
 
 
Induction Stove
Cooking
 $250 
BayRE
N
specifies Induction Range
Induction Stove Total Stackable Rebates and 
Tax Credits Available 
 
 $250 
 
 
 $1,500 
PCE
 
Additional One-Time Costs - Panel and New Circuits 
 $600* 
IRA 
Tax credit for panel upgrades- available in conjunction with other home 
upgrades (ex. weatherization, electrification, solar) 
Electric Panel Total Stackable Rebates and 
Tax Credits Available 
 
 $2,100 
 
 
Total electric home rebates available 
All-systems
 $5,500 
Tech 
Single Family - Each single-family property (includes duplex, townhomes, 
and manufactured homes) must install heat pump space heating, heat 
83 of 332

--- page 84 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
27
pump water heating, electric or induction cooking, and an electric 
dryer.
Electric Panel Total Stackable Rebates and 
Tax Credits Available 
 
 $5,500 
 
 
Total Electrification Incentives (Rebates + Tax Credits) Available 
$21,600 
 
 
Total Electrification Rebates Available $
$17,000
Total Electrification IRA Tax Credits Available $*
$4,600
*While rebates can be applied upfront by either the building owner or contractor, depending on the incentive program, IRA tax credits can be deducted from 
total taxes owed, meaning that the building owner would have to wait until tax season to receive the full cost reduction to electrify 
84 of 332

--- page 85 ---
Rincon Consultants, Inc.
449 15th Street, Suite 303
Oakland, California 94612
510-834-4455
28
Federal Electrification Incentives under the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) & the High 
Efficiency Electric Home Rebate Act28
The IRA was signed into law on August 2022, ushering in significant federal policy support 
and funding for building decarbonization. The High Efficiency Electric Home Rebate Act 
(HEEHRA) is the official name of the IRA’s rebate program for electric home technology 
including heat pumps, electrical wiring, and induction stoves, which will be available 
starting in 2023. Low-income households up to 80% of Area Median Income (AMI) can 
access 100% of upfront discount incentives, while moderate-income households from 80-
150% AMI can access up to 50% of the upfront discount, in addition to tax credits that 
vary based on household income. Total HEEHRA discounts are capped at $14,000 across 
all electrification projects. 
Cost reductions under HEEHRA are not included in this analysis as details are still 
developing and the incentives may not be available to everyone, as City of San Mateo 
building owners are generally classified as high income. However, for low and moderate-
income households up to 150% of AMI in San Mateo, IRA incentives may further increase 
the effectiveness of local electrification incentives available via PCE and BayREN, and 
help to close the gap for appliances where subsidies don’t always zero-out marginal 
costs, like HVAC systems, dryers, and induction ranges. 
Electrification Upfront Costs with Incentives Applied 
In the final piece of the cost analysis, we have applied the rebates described in Table 66 
to the marginal costs described in Table 4 to see if rebates and tax incentives can make 
electric technologies the same, or less costly than the gas scenario. For this analysis, the 
referenced $5,500 total home electrification rebate provided by Energy Smart Homes 
California was not applied since it requires a complete home electrification project at 
one time. Since this analysis focuses on time of replacement, this rebate was not applied 
to the analysis. 
The analysis shows that with the low-cost scenario for HVAC applied, in a house without 
AC, when all incentives are stacked, total costs without a panel upgrade, electrification 
could save building owners in San Mateo $709. If a home has both a furnace and AC to 
replace, fully electrifying would save $2,665 in marginal costs even with a panel upgrade, 
since one heat pump would replace two appliances. 
On the high end of the marginal costs + incentives range, electrifying a home without 
AC, with a panel upgrade, under the Median HVAC cost analysis scenario, would be 
$4,836 more expensive than a gas-for-gas scenario. These results are summarized in Table 
7 7.
28 https://www.rewiringamerica.org/IRAguide
85 of 332

--- page 86 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
29
PCE Zero Percent Loans 
In addition to these rebates, PCE offers up to $10,000 in zero percent loans to electrify gas 
water heaters, gas heaters/furnaces, panel upgrades, and efficiency upgrades 
(insulation, air sealing, duct replacements, and smart thermostats). These loans allow 
PCE-customers who are property owners to borrow up to $10,000 in 0% APR loans to 
electrify with a 2-10 year payback period.29 
29 https://www.peninsulacleanenergy.com/zero/
86 of 332

--- page 87 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
30
Table 7 7
Electrification Marginal Up-Front Costs + Incentives* 
Appliance
Cost 
Estimate
Combined 
Incentives
Total Marginal Cost 
with Incentives
Electrification Scenario Marginal Cost with Peninsula Clean Energy, BayREN, IRA Incentives
Electric heat pump water heater
 $3,200 
 $(6,000)
$(2,800)
Without AC-Low Cost HVAC
 $7,833 
 $(7,500)
$333
Without AC- HVAC system
 $11,778 
 $(7,500)
$4,278 
With AC- HVAC System 
 $4,278 
 $(7,500)
$(3,222)
Electric dryer
 $1,038 
 $(250)
$788 
Electric stove
 $1,220 
 $(250)
$970 
Additional One-Time Costs - Panel and New Circuits 
 $3,700 
 $(2,100)
$1,600 
Total Costs no panel upgrade low Cost HVAC No AC
$(709)
Total Costs No Panel Upgrade Median HVAC no AC
 $3,236 
Total Costs W/ Panel Upgrade Median HVAC w/o AC 
 $4,836 
Total Costs and Panel Upgrade Median HVAC with AC 
 $(2,665)
*Note that IRA incentives take the form of tax credits, while other rebates can be applied upfront by the 
building owner or contractor after completing program documentation requirements. Please refer to Table 
66 for a full summary of rebates and incentives by funder.
High-Rise Multifamily and Nonresidential Building Costs
To better understand costs and other constraints related to multifamily and nonresidential 
building electrification, Rincon reviewed best-available existing resources on this topic, 
namely, the PCE 2035 Decarbonization Plan (2022), and The Rocky Mountain Institute The 
Economics of Electrifying Buildings: Medium Size Commercial Retrofits (2022)30. This 
document review is also supplemented by original contractor interviews conducted by 
Rincon for the upcoming Sacramento Electric Buildings Strategy (2022). Though not strictly 
City of San Mateo specific, the technical considerations of challenges to electrify 
oversized buildings are consistent between Sacramento and San Mateo, so are 
referenced here as recent region-specific resources for commercial electrification in 
Northern California.
Electrification Up-Front Costs and Other Considerations
While single family and low rise multifamily residential buildings tend to use similar 
equipment and operate in similar ways, commercial buildings and high-rise multifamily 
buildings tend to be highly variable. In original research conducted by Rincon for the City 
of Sacramento in the summer of 2022, all interviewees31 communicated that larger 
multifamily and nonresidential buildings are more complicated to electrify than single-
30 https://rmi.org/insight/economics-of-electrifying-buildings-medium-size-commercial-retrofits/
31 To better understand costs and other constraints related to multifamily and nonresidential building electrification, 
Rincon conducted interviews with three energy engineering consultants working on large building decarbonization in 
Sacramento. Five additional interviewees were identified through the City’s contact network to speak to this topic, 
including energy managers and directors of UC Davis Health. Sacramento Municipal Utility District, Brighton Energy, 
Association for Energy Affordability, TRC Companies.
87 of 332

--- page 88 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
31
family homes and estimating costs is typically only possible on a project-by-project basis. 
This is because for most larger buildings, replacing a gas system with a similarly sized 
electric system is cost-prohibitive and therefore, often requires building re-engineering to 
determine appliance replacement and sizing options. For this reason, a detailed cost 
analysis for larger multifamily and commercial buildings was not developed and included 
here. Smaller buildings with domestic-sized space and water heating end uses, such as 
small to medium-sized retail or service buildings, have similar electrification costs as seen 
for single-family homes. 
However, some equipment types are similar across building types and the cost to electrify 
can be more readily analyzed at a high level. The PCE analysis notes that packaged 
commercial HVAC equipment, namely, packaged Single Zone (SZ) Gas Furnace with 
Cooling, are easy to electrify, as existing building 2-way A/C ordinances can cover most 
units without the requirement for incentives. The PCE Analysis also notes that the 
Packaged SZ Gas Furnace with Cooling offers a sizable opportunity to electrify, with 5,441 
Packaged SZ Gas Furnace with Cooling units across the County of San Mateo as shown 
below in Figure 17. Because of the relative cost parity and ease of adoption, there is 
already uptake of all-electric packaged SZ heat pumps, accounting for nearly 20% of 
analyzed existing commercial HVAC Equipment, as shown previously in Figure 15.
Figure 17 PCE 2035 Decarbonization Plan Commercial HVAC Equipment Analysis
PCE analyzed commercial rooftop packaged unit costs, finding that rooftop heat pumps 
are nearly identical to gas-fired rooftop packaged units, even without additional 
incentives, as shown below in Figure 18. This indicates that local policy and potential new 
incentives to retrofit using heat pump RTUs could be an impactful and cost effective 
strategy to achieve widespread commercial building electrification. 
88 of 332

--- page 89 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
32
Figure 18 PCE 2035 Decarbonization Plan Commercial Rooftop Package Unit Cost 
Analysis
The Rocky Mountain Institute (RMI) ‘The Economics of Electrifying Buildings: Medium-Size 
Commercial Retrofits’ Report notes that local policy, or expectations of new local 
building electrification policies, will be a key driver in advancing commercial energy 
electrification, as portfolio owners will want to avoid stranded assets unless they 
undertake electrification. The RMI report focused on the electrification of HVAC systems 
from rooftop units (RTUS) with Heat Pump Rooftop Package Units (RTUs), on a 
prototypical 50,000 sq ft office building. 
The RMI report modeled 5 cases to assess the economics of RTU retrofits: Case 1: No 
electrification, Case 2: Partial electrification, Case 3: Full electrification, Case 4: efficient 
electrification, Case 5: efficient electrification + demand management, Case 6: 
Efficient electrification + demand management and PV. These cases, found that in the 
cases of more temperate climates like Las Vegas and Seattle, building owners could 
89 of 332

--- page 90 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
33
achieve either neutral or positive 20-year net present value through full electrification 
(Seattle), or with full electrification with demand management and solar photovoltaics 
(Las Vegas), as shown in Figure 19.
Figure 19  RMI Report Exhibit 3: The 20-year Net Present Value of Each Case by City32
The results from the RMI study have three important San-Mateo-relevant takeaways, 
which is that 1) electrification policy, with electrification-specific prescriptive language 
for commercial building owners will be critical in actually electrifying commercial 
buildings, and 2) electrification of commercial building electric retrofits will likely have to 
be paired with a suite of demand management, energy efficiency, or renewable energy 
projects in order to make building electrification economical for building owners, and 3) 
heat pump rooftop package units are the most promising electrification solution for 
commercial building electrification, offering a replicable model for a 1:1 equipment 
swap-out. 
Case Studies
In addition to the PCE analysis, Rincon identified all-electric retrofit case study projects 
related to offices, schools, and restaurants. Schools (primary and secondary), restaurants 
(full-service and quick-service), and hospitals represent large commercial gas users in the 
City of San Mateo. Case studies were pulled from The Redwood Energy Pocket Guide to 
All-Electric Retrofits,33 the William J Worthen (WJW) Foundation Building Decarbonization 
32 Page 20 of: https://rmi.org/insight/economics-of-electrifying-buildings-medium-size-commercial-retrofits/
33 Redwood Energy. June 2022. A Pocket Guide to All-Electric Retrofits of Commercial Buildings.
90 of 332

--- page 91 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
34
Practice 
Guide 
Volume 
5,34 
and 
the 
California 
State 
University 
(CalState) 
Decarbonization Framework,35 and summarized here. Rincon will continue to look for 
more resources in these areas as the project progresses. 
Office
IMMIX LAW OFFICE, PORTLAND, OR (11,615 SQUARE FEET; ALL-ELECTRIC RETROFIT)
The building utilizes a highly efficient dedicated outside air system (DOAS) with heat 
recovery ventilation (HRV) for their HVAC system, which separates heating and cooling 
from the ventilation system to allow for optimal control of each of these critical building 
functions. The new HVAC system is comprised of a 16-ton Mitsubishi variable refrigerant 
flow (VRF) and four Ventacity VS1000RT HRVs. The HVAC system heats and cools 30 office 
spaces, five conference rooms, a lunchroom, exercise room, two restrooms, and open 
common spaces. The project resulted in increased occupant comfort, improved indoor 
air quality, lower energy bills (between $300 to $700 per month to heat, cool, and 
ventilate the building), saved roof space, and precise temperature and humidity control. 
The building has seen a 63% reduction in energy usage.36
100 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, MANHATTAN, NY (>20,000 SQUARE FEET; ALL-ELECTRIC RETROFIT)
This building was retrofitted to meet all winter space heating needed for exterior offices 
with waste heat from the air conditioning in the interior core of the building during the 
winter through an all-electric multizone heat pump HVAC system. Multizone systems are 
best for larger (20,000 square feet or more), more diverse buildings. While only 6% of HVAC 
systems in California are multizone systems that could be replaced with multizone heat 
pump technology, these buildings represent 37% to 75% of the GHG emissions from all 
buildings. They are technically complex to design and require highly skilled installers but 
also represent the largest GHG reduction opportunities.37
SONOMA CLEAN POWER HEADQUARTERS, SANTA ROSA, CA (15,000 SQUARE FEET; ALL-ELECTRIC RETROFIT)
The building was originally built in 1979 in Downtown Santa Rosa and retrofitted with all 
new insulation, all-new windows, all-new siding, and all-new mechanical systems. As part 
of the retrofit, the building installed Daikin rooftop units with variable air volume delivery 
and thermofusers at the zone level. The project also included its own microgrid and 
electric vehicle charging, which required an electrical service upgrade.38
34 William J Worthen Foundation. March 2022. The Building Decarbonization Practice Guide Volume 5: All-Electric 
Residential + Commercial Kitchens.
35 CalState Office of the Chancellor. 2022. CSU Decarbonization Framework.
36 Redwood Energy. June 2022. A Pocket Guide to All-Electric Retrofits of Commercial Buildings.
37 Redwood Energy. June 2022. A Pocket Guide to All-Electric Retrofits of Commercial Buildings.
38 Redwood Energy. June 2022. A Pocket Guide to All-Electric Retrofits of Commercial Buildings.
91 of 332

--- page 92 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
35
School
CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY, CALIFORNIA
The CSU Chancellor’s Office released a building decarbonization framework for the CSU 
system, which includes tools to evaluate central plan equipment, thermal overlap 
calculations for each campus, and a life cycle cost calculation tool for different 
decarbonization strategies. The framework provides all 23 campuses with a technical 
roadmap for replacing fossil fuel infrastructure with clean, electrified alternatives. The 
associated heat recovery potential and natural gas reduction at each campus was 
analyzed. The Sacramento CSU campus currently uses 78,164 million British Thermal Units 
per hour (MBTU) for cooling and 52,739 MBTU for heating. The heat recovery potential 
estimated for the building after adding thermal energy storage on site is 64% and the 
estimated natural gas reduction potential is 422,000 therms.39
CHATHAM UNIVERSITY EDEN HALL CAMPUS, PITTSBURGH, PA (ALL-ELECTRIC NEW CONSTRUCTION)
The campus is the world’s first fully self-sustained and zero net energy (ZNE) university 
campus. The campus includes 46 geothermal wells, an on-campus water treatment site, 
and a 40-acre farm. The campus kitchen was designed based on extensive energy 
analysis focusing on commercial kitchen equipment and HVAC systems. The analysis 
showed that induction equipment would reduce total kitchen energy consumption by 
over 50% compared to a traditional gas kitchen. The campus also installed demand-
based exhaust hoods with integrated heat recovery, a geo-exchange heat pump, and 
radiant heating and cooling systems for a low-energy HVAC system. The facility operates 
with an energy usage of approximately 60% below the typical full-service restaurant.40 
Restaurant
OYSTERMAN SEAFOOD BAR & KITCHEN, LONDON, ENGLAND; RETROFIT (INDUCTION UNITS)
The restaurant switched from gas to induction units, which allowed the restaurant to serve 
guests at a significantly faster rate. Gas ranges and fryers are half as efficient at 
transferring heat as electric ranges and fryers (35% vs. 75%), and electric ranges boil water 
twice as fast as gas ranges. Electric kitchens, therefore, use half or less as much heat to 
cook food and require half as much air conditioning. Electric equipment also takes less 
space to do the same amount of cooking, making it easier for a kitchen to expand its 
cooking capacity. In addition to these benefits, Oysterman also experienced fewer chef 
burns with their induction burners and found cleaning to be much easier, ultimately 
reducing staff turnover.41
BENIHANA JAPANESE STEAK HOUSE, VARIOUS LOCATIONS, U.S.; RETROFIT (INDUCTION GRILL)
The first Benihana steakhouse was started in New York City in 1964 and has since grown 
to 116 restaurants. Benihana performs teppanyaki cooking on steel grills. Recently the 
39 CalState Office of the Chancellor. 2022. CSU Decarbonization Framework.
40 William J Worthen Foundation. March 2022. The Building Decarbonization Practice Guide Volume 5: All-Electric 
Residential + Commercial Kitchens.
41 Redwood Energy. June 2022. A Pocket Guide to All-Electric Retrofits of Commercial Buildings.
92 of 332

--- page 93 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
36
restaurant chain converted its gas teppan grills to electric resistance and induction grills, 
which can cook meats faster, hotter, and more efficiently than gas while reducing the 
risk of uncontrolled fires.42
HOTEL MARCEL, NEW HAVEN, CT; NEW ALL-ELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION
The hotel has an all-electric commercial kitchen, which uses induction, including an 
induction wok setup.43 Induction woks are not common in American commercial 
kitchens, however, they are becoming increasingly popular in Mainland China, Taiwan, 
Hong Kong, and Macau. Many commercial options exist on the market for induction 
cookers that can accommodate concave pans (such as woks). 15 million induction 
cookstoves were sold in Mainland China in 2020, with a growth of nearly 4% from the 
previous year.44 
MICROSOFT REDMOND CAMPUS CAFETERIA, REDMOND, WA; NEW ALL-ELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION
The Microsoft Redmond Campus serves over 12,000 meals a day in 77,000 square feet of 
all-electric kitchens. The project had to overcome barriers such as equipment availability, 
throughput considerations, and station design. Microsoft has noted a positive response 
from the industry in the past few years enabling the transition for them.45
High-Rise Multifamily
BAYVIEW TOWER, SEATTLE, WA
The 100 unit high rise multifamily building was retrofit to be all electric using the Origin 
heat pump water heater system that provides all needed water heating components 
(heat pump, storage tank, valves, controls, etc..) on one skid to maximize ease of 
installation. The system is expected to reduce energy use by 59%. 46
ELIZABETH JAMES HOUSE, SEATTLE, WA
Elizabeth James House is a four story, 60 unit low income senior apartment building built 
in 1968. This project had a central plan of four ECO2 heat pumps, with three existing 120 
gallon tanks in a series swing configuration. In addition, the system kept the three electric 
water heaters, and a 175 gallon swing tank was installed.29
Recommendations from Interviewees
As part of the interview process for previous work with the City of Sacramento, Rincon 
asked contractors what recommendations they have for the City or utility provider for 
reducing barriers to electrification in the City. While some of these recommendations may 
be specific to the City of Sacramento, many of these recommendations hold for the City 
42 Redwood Energy. June 2022. A Pocket Guide to All-Electric Retrofits of Commercial Buildings.
43 Business Wire article, accessed at: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20220420005918/en/The-First-
Anticipated-Net-Zero-Hotel-and-First-Passive-House-Certified-Hotel-in-the-US-Slated-to-Open-This-Spring
44 HKTDC Market Research, accessed at: https://research.hktdc.com/en/article/MzA3OTE4MTUw
45 William J Worthen Foundation. March 2022. The Building Decarbonization Practice Guide Volume 5: All-Electric 
Residential + Commercial Kitchens.
46 https://www.redwoodenergy.net/publications/redwood-energys-pocket-guide-to-all-electric-commercial-retrofits
93 of 332

--- page 94 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
37
of San Mateo, to account for the viewpoint of contractors and building developers 
dealing with complex commercial building stock. These recommendations included:
•
Alleviate the burden on the customer for upgrading older, last-mile equipment 
such as transformers and services. Having to upgrade this equipment can kill a 
project. SMUD (in San Mateo, PG&E) could identify transformers that are 
already at peak capacity and deal with them pro-actively, or identify grant 
funds to help cover these costs.
•
More workforce training and work with the unions is needed to prepare the 
workforce for electrification work.
•
Encourage projects to build-in more hot water storage to help avoid an 
increased peak electrical load.
•
Develop policy to avoid over-estimation of panel needs, which can trigger 
larger-scale electrical upgrades that are prohibitively expensive. Default 
calculations on equipment tend to overestimate peak load and using real 
data from a building instead can help avoid ballooning expenses.
•
Adjusted rate structures could be an incentive for early electrification 
adopters, since this would help guarantee on-bill savings in many cases. Peak 
demand for commercial customers currently sets their billing rate. Many 
customers are on the edge of hitting their peak demand charge and 
electrification would bump them into a higher tier, creating a disincentive to 
electrify. A specific commercial electrification rate with a discount would help 
remove this barrier. This suggestion item would require coordination with PCE. 
•
Expedited permits could create an incentive for commercial customers to 
electrify, especially on smaller jobs. Ideally, the permit could be filled out online 
over-the-counter with a simple set of questions with a permit turn-around rate 
of 24 hours.
•
A building performance standards approach could work well for commercial 
buildings. San Francisco’s program is recommended as a model. San 
Francisco’s program is self-reporting but is validated. Buildings over 10,000 
square feet are required to complete a level 1 audit; buildings over 50,000 
square feet are required to complete a level 2 audit, and reporting 
requirement is every five years. Setting up the reporting system online with 
simple report requirements and very low rigor at the start would help get the 
most buildings into the system.
•
Releasing a building performance standards program under something other 
than an electrification strategy may be the best tactic. This approach could 
appear more feasible, and avoid misunderstandings on potential for 
mandatory upgrades.
Current Incentives
Current electrification programs and rebates are available for commercial and multi-
family buildings in the City of San Mateo from PCE, TECH, and BayREN are summarized in 
Table 88. All residential appliance incentives described in Table 66 should also apply to 
94 of 332

--- page 95 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
38
multifamily residents if the applicant for rebates is also the owner of the apartment, in the 
case of PCE Incentives.47
Table 88 Current Incentives and Programs for Commercial Buildings (as of August 2023) 
Description
Amount/Type
Details
Commercial Building Incentives
Data Connect (PCE)
Technical assistance 
Access or share PCE Data Connect 
platform to analyze facility energy 
data, access data to help calculate 
energy carbon footprint. Could be 
useful for future building performance 
standard work.
Technical Design Assistance (PCE) 
Technical Assistance
Free project assistance for all-electric 
buildings with TRC via 
AllElectricDesign.org
Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) 
Commercial Buildings Tax Credit
Tax Credit
Tax credit for energy efficiency based 
on square footage (Tax Credit 179D)
Multifamily Building Incentives
TECH Heat Pump HVAC Systems 
Serving Multiple Apartments
$1,000/unit
HP HVAC equipment serving multiple 
apartments
TECH Common area HPWH rebate
$1,800/ system
Split or packaged rooftop/ 
multi/position heat pump (ducted or 
ductless) 
TECH Electrical panel upgrade
$1,400/ apartment 
receiving electrical 
upgrade
Undersized apartment electrical 
infrastructure is upgraded as part of an 
apartment’s HPWH or HP HVAC 
Installation 
BayREN Common Area HVAC 
$1,000/equipment
Common area heat pump HVAC
BayREN Laundry/Common Area 
Heat Pump Water Heater
$1,000/equipment
Common area laundry or heat pump 
water heater
BayREN Heat Pump Pool Heater
$1,500/pool
BayREN Subpanel Upgrade
$1,000/apt served
BayREN Central/common area 
panel upgrade
$5,000/property
Source : https://www.peninsulacleanenergy.com/commercial-programs/, 
https://techcleanca.com/incentives/multifamily-information/, https://www.bayren.org/multifamily-property-
owners/building-improvements
On-Bill Costs – analysis pending
On-bill costs are another important piece of the overall economics of electrification. This 
data is currently being analyzed by PCE and will be included here once completed. Initial 
47 https://www.peninsulacleanenergy.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/Peninsula-Clean-Energy-Appliance-Rebates-
Terms-Conditions_10.01.22.pdf
95 of 332

--- page 96 ---
City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)
39
data points to the ability for building electrification to be at cost parity or cost savings 
with mixed fuel homes but is highly dependent on the electricity rate structure for the 
building. 
96 of 332

--- page 97 ---
THE FOLLOWING PUBLIC COMMENTS WERE
SUBMITTED FOLLOWING THE PUBLICATION OF
THE AUGUST 9, 2023 SIC MEETING PACKET
97 of 332

--- page 98 ---
From: Diane Bailey

Sent: Friday, August 4, 2023 6:21 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Support for City of San Mateo Sustainable Building Strategy and Electrify San Mateo -

Please Move Ahead Expeditiously with this framework

Dear Commissioners, Staff, and Consultants,

Thank you for continuing progress on San Mateo's Building Electrification strategy. This is a key effort to
address the Climate Crisis. Your leadership and hardwork are essential not only to maintaining San Mateo's
position as a top leader on climate policy, but more importantly to safeguard residents from the impacts of
climate that we are already feeling.

We are lucky here on the peninsula, where our summer has been so mild, as millions across the globe swelter
in devastating extreme heat. If there's any question about whether we will face more extreme heat here,
consider these recent articles:

» Axios reports that: Record-setting heat and hazardous air have already consumed much of the U.S. this

summer, and the worst may be yet to come.
» USA Today explains how climate change has contributed to the extreme heat this summer: "...At this point,

there aren’t any unprecedentedly extreme heat events on Earth that haven't been exacerbated by climate
change.”

e Vox explains that: "July 4 was the hottest day on Earth since record-keeping began more than 40 years ago <i
and extreme heat is likely to worsen due to climate change.

| appreciate that the report by Rincon articulates the many benefits of electrifying San Mateo homes and buildings,
including bringing air conditioning (with electric heat pumps) to the many homes that currently lack it. These policies can
also help create high quality job opportunities in San Mateo.

My gratitude to everyone who contributed to this report. Please act expeditiously to move electrification forward in San
Mateo, as we collectively feel the heat of climate change.

Sincerely,
Diane Bailey

98 of 332


--- page 99 ---
From: Robert Whiteh air Aas

Sent: Monday, August 7, 2023 7:16 AM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Ce: Michelle Hudson; Andrea Chow; Christina Horrisberger

Subject: August 9 meeting, agenda item 2, Sustainable Buildings Strategy — Project Update

Dear Chair Rowinski and Commissioners

| thank the City of San Mateo for releasing the decarbonization study, in response to the City Council's
approved objective for FY 23-24: “Establish policies to decarbonize and electrify existing buildings and
eliminate natural gas use by 2030.”

Building electrification is one of the most important responses to the climate crisis. The framework provided by
the report authors, Rincon Consultants, will provide a clear path for every San Mateo homeowner, landlord,
and commercial property owner to take the one most direct, immediate step to stop the march of the climate
crisis: Electrify Everything!

It is important to say that Rincon Consultants found that whole home electrification could be less
expensive for building owners in San Mateo than replacing appliances with gas once rebates are
included,

Rincon Consultants found that "(Electrification) Quotes for some equipment, such as HVAC units, could
vary by as much as $15,000 for the same project.” Moving forward let's work together to standardize
installations, to keep a lid on costs.

We are aware that there are strong forces in the United States working to kill the Inflation Reduction Act.
Collaborating with others, SMCAT will do everything it can to assure that the IRA continues and thrives.

We respectfully request that the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission continue the strong City
Council Objective to decarbonize and electrify existing buildings.

Thank you

Robert Whitehair
Co Leader, San Mateo Climate Action Team

99 of 332


--- page 100 ---
From: Marty Jordan

Sent: Monday, August 7, 2023 10:44 AM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: draft report

Thank you for your draft report regarding the decarbonization and electrification of existing buildings in San Mateo and
the elimination of natural gas use by 2030. There will be much push back on this and | encourage you to remain
steadfast in this goal. | don’t need to tell you, but it is one of the most effective steps our city can take to stop the
climate crisis we find ourselves living each and every day. Please ensure that every citizen has access to the many
financial incentives and rebates available to them via county, state and federal programs.

Warm regards,

Marty Jordan

100 of 332


--- page 101 ---
From: Megan Strain

Sent: Tuesday, August 8, 2023 8:04 AM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Public Comment on Decarbonization Report

Dear San Mateo Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission,

| ama San Mateo resident and member of the San Mateo Climate Action Team. | thank you for sharing the draft report
from Rincon regarding San Mateo's decarbonization objective set by City Council -- ""Establish policies to decarbonize
and electrify existing buildings and eliminate natural gas use by 2030." | am so grateful to live in a community that
is committed to sustainability goals like decarbonization.

| find the draft report encouraging, and | hope it will reignite our city's leadership to continue to take action to electrify
buildings. As climate change continues to shape our community, it is critical to take all the steps we can in the next few
years to combat climate change, with an eye for equity to ensure ail citizens are able to make the right decision for their
family and for the climate. With the Inflation Reduction Act rebates, many homeowners will find that electrification is
less expensive than replacing gas appliances, making decarbonization a "low-hanging fruit" for people wishing to do the
right thing for their home and the environment.

Building decarbonization is one of the most direct and immediate steps we can take; and | encourage our city to learn
from this report and continue this action while supporting the financial and practical means to ensure all residents can
take part.

Thank you,

Megan Strain
San Mateo Resident

101 of 332


--- page 102 ---
From: Elaine Salinger Er

Sent: Tuesday, August 8, 2023 10:52 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Subject: Electrify San Mateo, Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable Building
Strategy

Hello sustainability and infrastructure commission members,

| am the leader of SMC Citizens Climate Lobby chapter and we have 200+ members living in the City of San Mateo. |
represent the chapter members’ view. | want to thank the City of San Mateo for releasing the study, in response to
the City Council's approved objective for FY 23-24.

Please support policies to decarbonize and electrify existing buildings and eliminate natural gas use by
2030.

Building electrification is one of the most important responses to the climate crisis. The framework provided by
the report authors, Rincon Consultants, will provide a clear path for every San Mateo homeowner, landlord,
and commercial property owner to take the one most direct, immediate step to stop the march of the climate
crisis: Electrify Everything!

Between tax refunds and rebates included in the IRA, zero interest loans from PCE, and reduced cost of
energy needed to run heat pumps, building electrification is affordable for most people. Please support rapid
decarbonization.

Elaine Salinger, San Mateo Chapter Leader

{& Citizens’ Climate Lobby

102 of 332


--- page 103 ---
From: Bruce Naegel

Sent: Wednesday, August 9, 2023 11:51 AM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Upcoming vote on Sustainabiltiy

Dear Commissioners:

Thank you for addressing sustainability in San Mateo with your plan to “Establish
policies to decarbonize and electrify existing buildings and eliminate natural gas use
by 2030.”

Urgency is required in implementing a sustainability plan. We do not have much
time. Weather events are increasing in severity. Buildings use large quantities of
methane (fossil gas)

San Mateo is taking the responsibility of developing a plan seriously. Rincon
Associates, which has developed well received climate plans is guiding the effort.

The goal is clear. We need to use the carbon free electricity supplied by Peninsula
Clean Energy to power our buildings.

Fossil (natural) gas was once viewed as a bridge fuel to a carbon free
tomorrow. Since that time, we have learned more about fossil gas. First, using as
fuel for cooking creates Nitrogen oxides. These oxides are harmful to the lungs of
children. In fact, children in homes using natural gas as a cooking fuel had a 42%
higher chance of developing asthma symptoms.

42% increase in asthma symptoms
httos://rmi.org/gas-stoves-health-climate-asthma-risk

Fossil gas leaks and creates problems. Besides the toxic dangers of methane, leaks
can ignite. The worst case of this was the San Brun explosion in 2010 with 8 killed

and 56 injured.

httos://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/San Bruno pipeline explosion
1

103 of 332


--- page 104 ---
Whole Home Electrification

If we are going to get to being gas free by 2030, all gas uses need to be converted
to electric appliances. Every year, the selection of electric appliances improves. We
have washers, dryers, dishwashers, hot water heaters, Heat Pump HVAC systems.
We have artificial flames and fireplaces that provide heat and the magic of a flames
in a fireplace (with no burning).

Every year the number of homes that have converted to all electricity grows. San
Mateo's efforts will help to accelerate to the goal of zero carbon by 2030. Thanks
for the effort to get us to where we are now. Thanks in advance for marching to the
2030 zero carbon goal.

Bruce Naegel

Sustainable Silicon Valley

Carbon Free Mountain View
Carbon Free Silicon Valley

Fossil Free Buildings Silicon Valley

104 of 332


--- page 105 ---
From: Gerard Mennino i
Sent: Wednesday, August 9, ‘40 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Comments on Rincon electrification report

DearS & |commission members,

Thanks for all you do for San Mateo. Ahead of your review of the Rincon Consulatants draft report on building
electrification, and based on the draft report, | have a few observations to share.

1. Above all is, this is a critical issue - global warming is clearly the worst threat that humanity has faced in millenia, but
also, San Mateo city has emerged as a leader in municipal climate change action, and this report and its implementation
has enormous potential to make a big difference throughout California and beyond. | encourage you to put every effort
into making this process a success - it may be one of the most important contributions to the planet that you make in
your career, and will definitely be more history-changing than almost anything that almost all the rest of us do!

2. I’m very happy to see a clear statement of the importance of equity. To eventually stop burning methane, everyone
will need to be on board, so both from a fairness and effectiveness point of view, we need to create solutions that can
work for everyone. As much as the effectiveness criteria need to be in line with equity, | hope that the equity criteria will
also be in line with effectiveness. | have seen programs in other jurisdictions that carried out very elaborate and very
expensive whole-home retrofits on a small number of houses, in a way that was more political than effective, so | hope
that any San Mateo programs manage to maximize both effectiveness and equity.

3. The world has a very limited budget of further emissions that can be released. | urge you to focus on maximizing tons
of CO2 avoided, over ‘complete’ solutions. For instance, since water heating accounts for half of all domestic gas usage,
water heaters are replaced more than furnaces and cooktops, and the economics of water heater electrification are the
most compelling, it would make sense to push immediately (i.e. in months, not years) to increase the rate of water
heater electrification on burnout, which is currently estimated at only 1-3%. Every gas water heater that is replaced this
year will still be polluting in 15 years time, so moving fast on the lowest hanging fruit is important. It is important to have
a comprehensive plan to electrify everything, but not everything can be done at once.

4. A second key issue with domestic water heating is that the BAAQMD will meet in late 2024 to determine if their
proposed regulations on water heaters should go into effect in 2027. When these regulations were proposed, many
board members expressed concerns about their feasibility - equity, funding, supply chain, vendor education etc. If the
regulations go ahead, it will be a colossal achievement - turning off half the domestic gas emissions from an area of 7
million people. If San Mateo city can move quickly on encouraging voluntary electrification of water heaters at scale, it
will be an important proof that the rest of the Bay Area can implement these changes. Again, it will allow San Mateo
innovation to have a huge effect, far beyond its borders.

Thank you for all the work you do, and | wish you every success in greening San Mateo.

-Gerard Manning.

105 of 332


--- page 106 ---
THE FOLLOWING PUBLIC
COMMENTS WERE SUBMITTED
FOLLOWING THE PUBLICATION

OF THE AGENDA PACKET

106 of 332


--- page 107 ---
From: Stefani Hartsell

Sent: Friday, September 8, 2023 1:03 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Required Conversion to electric

| cannot believe you would require such a huge cost to be pushed on to homeowners.

| bought my home in 1999, raised my kids and am paying for their college. Now 60, | am trying to prepare for
retirement.

Laid off in 10/2022 and then got another job. Lay off’s all around me.

| have worked hard for nearly 25 years to be ready to retire and now you are throwing an arbitrary expense at me AND
there has been no studies that our electronical grid can handle this and all of the other electrification AND natural gas is
used for the electrical grid.

This is unreasonable over reach. It is an unreasonable burden, especially for those of us retirees and almost retirees.

Sincerely,
Concerned Citizen

107 of 332


--- page 108 ---
7 -

From: Libby Traubman

Sent: Friday, September 8, 2023 2:29 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Electrify Everything

Dear Community Leaders,

Thanks to the City of San Mateo for releasing the draft study, in response to the
City Council's approved objective for FY 23-24 to “Establish policies to decarbonize and electrify existing
buildings and eliminate natural gas use by 2030.”

According to Electrify Now (https://electrifynow.net/), every home that is
electrified eliminates 9 -19 tons of global warming carbon dioxide emissions,

every single year. That Is on top of the 4 tons of CO2 emissions per year per home that are saved by signing on to
Peninsula Clean Energy.

Regarding cost of electrification, Rincon Consultants notes on page 18 in the

report, that:
“Whole home electrification could be less expensive for building

owners in San Mateo than replacing appliances with gas once

rebates are included."
As | have suggested a number of times, when it comes to responding to the climate crisis, San Mateo is in a perfect
position to model how to meet this challenge for other cities, both here and beyond. We must be good ancestors and
work for a future that is able to support the next generations. To me, no sacrifice is too great.
Thank you for being good leaders.
Libby Traubman

Libby Traubman

*** One Earth One Humanity One Future ***

108 of 332


--- page 109 ---
From: Val Armento

Sent: Friday, September 8, 2023 5:29 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Sustainable Building Strategy — Project Update; SIC (great acronym) Agenda Item #3,

Sept. 13, 2023

I am adamantly opposed to the idea of targeting January 1, 2025 as a date for requiring
electric appliances upon appliance replacement in single family homes.

The report states “Building energy use represents 38% of communitywide greenhouse
gas emissions in San Mateo” which means 62% of GHG emissions come from elsewhere,
Focus there.

The report notes “At the regional level, in May 2023, the Bay Area Air Quality
Management District (BAAQMD) adopted zero nitrogen oxides (NOx) standards that will
prohibit the sale and installation of gas water heaters starting in 2027 and gas furnaces
in 2029 in the nine-county Bay Area. These standards are the most ambitious in the
country and outpace the state’s goal of banning the sale of new gas furnaces and water
heaters throughout the state starting in 2030.” There is no need for the City of San
Mateo to have an even more ambitious schedule. Are you trying to lay the groundwork
for litigation?

The Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1) Building for the
Future — City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy (Version 2) notes that
building vintage is a key factor in determining hurdles to electrification and that 70% of
the homes in the City of San Mateo were built before 1970 and “could potentially need
panel upgrades or other electrical work prior to full electrification.” It also notes
countywide the “vast majority of water heaters run on natural gas” especially in single
family homes. Further, space heating in “single family owned and rented buildings still
use gas most commonly.” When it comes to appliances, 60% of all stoves are gas
fueled.

I live in a home described in the preceding paragraph and it would require an electrical
panel upgrade because the fuse box is below 100 amp. Buried in footnote 22 on page 20
of the report (42 out of 70 in the packet) is the comment “The amp cutoff for electric
panel upgrade is widely understood to be 100 amps or higher- a building with below 100
amps likely will need a panel upgrade to accommodate all-electric appliances.” The
report itself states: “Assuming that home electrification does require an electric panel
upgrade (particularly for homes with electric panels less than 100 amps): * $28,003-
$31,948” Those are dollar figures as of the compilation of the report.

Furthermore, the report does not discuss the likely domino effect of a panel

upgrade. Will PG&E/PCE have additional exterior requirements? Do walls need to be
opened, thereby requiring sheetrock and painting? Will counters need to be

109 of 332


--- page 110 ---
reconfigured? What hidden costs and complexities have not been disclosed by all the
gung-ho proponents, presuming they have even thought of or considered them?

Several pages in the report attempt to explain away the financial hit by pointing to
incentives, none of which are guaranteed and all of which are after-the-fact rebates or
tax credits, assuming one qualifies. Not realistic; no thanks.

No where in the report of the Analysis Framework Memo incorporating Equity and
Effectiveness Electrify San Mateo | Building for the Future: City of San Mateo
Sustainable Buildings Strategy is there any discussion about the fact the state does not
currently have (nor will it have for several decades) enough reliable non-fossil fuel
energy for all the anticipated electrification. Similarly, there is no discussion or even
acknowledgement that there will not be enough reputable contractors to perform the
necessary work in the proposed truncated timeframe. The impact on the elderly and
middle class are ignored. Also lacking is any discussion of the disruption/inconvenience
to residents while such work is going on. Undoubtedly these items are not mentioned
because they require airing negatives.

While I support efforts to improve the environment, I also believe those in existing
single-family homes are entitled to freedom of choice in their personal spaces. Peninsula
Clean Energy “is committed to delivering 100% renewable and carbon free electricity by
2025.” Let’s see if that actually happens. The City Council already has proposed 2030
as the target date for termination of gas fuel infrastructure, which the consultants are
supposed to evaluate. Let them do that as objectively as they can. The state has an
“ambitious climate goal of carbon neutrality by 2045.” Enough already.

City of San Mateo residents do not need a mandated date for electrifying their
appliances.

Valerie Armento

110 of 332


--- page 111 ---
From: Gary Trott 2

Sent: Friday, September 8, 2023 9:42 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Sept 13 meeting. Agenda item #2 Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Dear Commissioners, Staff, and Consultants.

Thank you for the releasing the decarbonization study on electrification for San Mateo City.
Building electrification is one of the most important responses we collectively can act upon in response to the climate
crisis.

Climate change is real. It is happening now, and will continue to deteriorate in the future unless positive steps are taken
to mitigate fossil fuel emissions. So it is imperative we start the electrification change process now, as soonas possible.

Change is always fraught with resistance from the public. But as the Rincon Consultants observed, whole home
electrification can be less expensive for building owners in San Mateo than replacing appliances with gas once rebates
are included.

So, | am strongly in favor of San Mateo City continuing the City Council Objective to decarbonize and electrify existing
buildings. | myself am doing it for my home. | also recognize it requires a strong commitment to educate everyone, on
the myriad of choices and daunting multitude of options. That is where the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
can help by promoting all opportunities to educate the public. Please support rapid electrification change over for
everyone in San Mateo.

Thank you

Dr. Gary Trott
San Mateo Resident

111 of 332


--- page 112 ---
From: L. Eberhart

Sent: Saturday, September 9, 2023 10:44 AM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Subject: SIC - de-carbonize San Mateo buildings - a positive for our children's future
Hello:

First, thank you to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commision for your work on moving the ball forward on our
decarbonization objectives for the City of San Mateo.

| am writing today to strongly urge the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission to continue the
strong City Council objective to decarbonize buildings and end the use of gas,

While | realize that currently electrification quotes for some equipment, such as

HVAC units, can vary, we still need to move forward to standardize installations to keep a lid on costs for all San
Mateans. We can do this! There are many rebates available and along with tax credits we should be able to make some
headway if we consider our options.

Let us work together in an informed way to assure that the IRA continues to thrive. Thank you for your efforts in
supporting a cleaner future for our children.

Best,

Leane Eberhart
Architect and San Mateo resident

112 of 332


--- page 113 ---
From: Ricki McGlashan

Sent: Saturday, September 9, 2023 11:38 AM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Phase out gas in SM

We strongly urge the Sustainability and infrastructure Commission to continue the strong City Council objective to
decarbonize buildings and end the use of gas.

I'm so proud of our city for being forward thinking and leading the way as we together combat climate change.
So far we have replaced our gas water heater and gas stove. We are now under contract to replace the furnace. The
way the numbers pencil out, we will pay off our costs way before we sell the house. Our company, FUSE, seems quite

expert and able to do the work prompltly.

Anything we can do to encourage replacing gas appliances with electric will push PGE to build up their green power
sources.

| feel great having something concrete | can do to combat climate change—and indoor pollution. Now | can have my
grandchildren come and breathe easy at our house.

113 of 332


--- page 114 ---
From: Jill Watkins

Sent: Saturday, September 9, 2023 11:55 AM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: opinion letter

Hello all, thank you for your progress toward implementing the decarbonization objective.

As an educator, a strong proponent of environmental causes and a San Mateo resident, | believe that electrification is
the one most direct, immediate step that we can take to turn around the climate crisis and | am in full support of San
Mateo’s decarbonization strategy

\'m aware that rebates are available, and as the Rincon Consultants report makes clear, Peninsula Clean Energy rebates,
tax credits under the Inflation Reduction Act, and other funding makes electrification doable and affordable - a good

economic decision!

Thank you for your time,

Jill Watkins
Director & 4-day Core Teacher
Carlmont Parents Nursery School-Belmont, CA

[x aeons

"Where Friends Meet"

114 of 332


--- page 115 ---
From: Wendy Chou

Sent: Saturday, September 9, 2023 6:58 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Decarbonization matters to San Mateo

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| am grateful to the Commission for its leadership and foresight in implementing the decarbonization objective for the
City of San Mateo and for releasing the draft study for review. San Mateo is one of just a handful of U.S. cities taking
decarbonization as seriously as the issue deserves. Kudos to you. At this time, however, | would also like to urge you to
continue the forward momentum on this process. We need to keep supporting decarbonization —through all means
possible, but specifically, by focusing on building electrification.

It is worth it to eliminate fossil fuel appliances from our city structures for the following reasons:

1) The warming climate, which is directly related to emissions of natural gas/methane, will have damaging effects on the
lives and livelihoods of San Mateans. We have seen that impacts include everything from extreme heat (which is
dangerous to children, the elderly, and the significant number of residents who lack air conditioning), fiercerand wetter
storms, and more frequent and more destructive wildfires. These are not crises that San Mateans want, nor deserve.
These are crises that interact and overlap since climate change is a threat multiplier.

2) The methane gas we burn comes from dangerous practices such as hydraulic fracturing that pollute the water and
air and imperil frontline communities.

3) Burning methane in our homes here in San Mateo is an unsafe practice with many identified health risks, for instance,
from gas stoves.

4) Switching to electric will reduce costs in the long run (and far sooner when including incentives). Rewiring America's
electrification guide estimates "Households will save on average $1,800 a year by going electric". As technologies begin
to scale, the costs will drop further. NREL reported in a recent model / study that "Higher levels of electrification with
rapid advancements in the cost and performance of end-use electric technologies can result in net energy system

savings—up to $800 billion in the high electrification scenario."

5) Importantly, here in the Bay Area we are fortunate to have certain municipalities and CCAs in the vanguard of
electrification. For example, a wide variety of existing Peninsula Clean Energy rebates, newer tax credits created by the
Inflation Reduction Act, and other available funding makes electrification more affordable (as the Rincon report
indicates: “Whole home electrification could be less expensive for building owners in San Mateo than replacing
appliances with gas, once rebates are included"),

Those who oppose decarbonization and want to choose business as usual are merely in denial that the future is already
getting hotter, more expensive, less predictable, and more deadly. | choose not to let that scenario play out.
Decarbonization is the better choice both from a moral and financial standpoint. With so many common-sense reasons
to accelerate electrification in San Mateo, | am hopeful that you will continue to facilitate our progress on this issue.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to the public welfare.

Sincerely,
Wendy Chou

115 of 332


--- page 116 ---
116 of 332


--- page 117 ---
Sent: Sunday, September 10, 2023 9:18 AM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Citizen speaking up

To Chair Rowinski and Commissioners:

| strongly support the action San Mateo is undertaking to meet the City Council goal of establishing policies to
decarbonize and electrify San Mateo buildings, and eliminate natural gas by 2030.

Electrification will save up to 19 tons of CO2 emissions per year, on top of reduced emissions, by purchasing our
electricity from Peninsula Clean Energy.

This issue, as President Biden just declared, is of utmost importance to all of us, from local to global.
As leaders you can make a difference and | urge you to do so.

Nancy Margulies, Montara, CA

NancyMargulies.com

Nancy Margulies

117 of 332


--- page 118 ---
From: Dave Santos

Sent: Sunday, September 10, 2023 2:52 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Converting your Home or Building to Electric - Costs and Implementation

San Mateo's Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission:

| am writing to address my concerns that the commission is fast tracking converting
homes from gas to electric appliances.

Gas appliances provide affordable, reliable energy. Total electrification is neither
economical nor logical. It removes an alternative energy supply and replaces it with a
single unreliable energy source. There will be no backup during electrical outages
which will increase as demand (including new construction) on the grid increases
exponentially. PCE, the local energy supplier, would benefit due to their monopoly
status . PCE relies on wind and solar generation, and both are unpredictable (meaning
more outages). Standby power currently is provided by PG & E through an energy
banking system which is fossil fuel in nature.

Interrupting the current energy supply will be costly. There will be formidable logistics
that need to be considered. This plan will require major upgrades by PG & E's
infrastructure, massive engineering and redesigning substations, distribution networks,
capacity increases and scheduling new electrical connections. PG&E will have to
severe or abandon their natural gas connections to all buildings. Do you feel
comfortable given PG&E's safety record that this will happen safely and smoothly and
be ready in a less than a year and a half?

| support your efforts but feel that it is myopic to do the necessary due diligence to
implement this in 2025.

Unlike the Community Flood and Storm Protection Initiative, information on this has not
been disseminated to homeowners.

Questions that come to mind are:

What is the city going to do to ramp up their infrastructure to accomplish this?

How will this be implemented? What information is going to be shared with the
homeowners and when?

What is the conversion going to cost a homeowner? Are there additional costs involved
if this is an older home?

118 of 332


--- page 119 ---
Who will be paying for all these costs?

Can PG&E supply enough energy to handle the increased demand?

Will there be enough licensed electrical contractors to meet the demand?
How will PG&E handle a tidal wave of new requests?

Will PG&E have the financial resources to upgrade their distribution system, install new
wiring and transfer stations?

Does anyone remember Stanford's three-day outage last year because of their
dismantling of their gas supplies cogeneration plant? Who will be accountable during
this conversion?

The reality of the situation for most people is the cost. | am looking for specific city
guidance regarding a cost breakdown and procedures. This is not a concern for
renters, but for home and building owners this is important.

It is my understanding that this initiative to end gas for existing homes/buildings goes
beyond codes set by the state; | am concerned that the commission fails to
comprehend and quantify the enormous possible home and business owner expense.

This is not simply a matter of electrical replacements, it’s also the upgrade and/or
addition of electric circuit panels, finding space to install such panels, increasing
electric service with PG&E (dealing with overhead/underground wiring replacements),
rewiring a homes and buildings for circuit placement and more. For example, for a new
heating system, depending on the nature of what needs to be replaced, an exterior
heat pump could be necessary. Researching this, it is an involved and complicated
project. A homeowner(depending on their house size) may end up needing several
exterior heat pumps or must wait hours for heat and hot water.

The uncharted territory of the proposed changes has not been well thought out at this
time. Most homes have gas furnaces and hot water heaters. Should your heater go
out, necessitating an all-electric replacement, doing so would mean no gas to the
existing appliances for up to 3 weeks. Even a stove replacement could end up with
ancillary costs for kitchens to accommodate the new electric appliances. Adding
electrical panels could also mean opening walls, replacing sheet rock, painting, and
cosmetic touchups.

Much like the homeowner insurance crisis, this would be perfect storm of an escalating
burden of costs that may adversely affect older residents, middle income families and
young families struggling to meet mortgage, property taxes, homeowner, and
earthquake insurance expenses.

119 of 332


--- page 120 ---
The city is asking for support to upgrade their storm system, do you think homeowners
will be receptive to voting for this proposal with this new proposed change for
electrification that has no price tag?

| am concerned about the effects of global warming and climate change. | urge the
commission to explore other options that are viable alternatives to reduce global
warming and the city’s carbon footprint. It’s important to explore the best courses of
action to reduce our carbon footprint in a more cost-effective way.

To reiterate, this plan will drastically impact on our energy supply, reliability, utility
providers, and pocketbooks.

The commission has good intentions . However, the home and building owners of San
Mateo deserve better than a hastily rushed and ill-conceived plan. Adopting such a
plan would have a drastic impact on the city's energy supply, reliability, utilities and
owner's finances. There needs to be more due process before impractical and costly
regulations are approved.

Thank you for your consideration in this matter.

Sincerely,

Dave Santos

120 of 332


--- page 121 ---
From: Dave Clark

Sent: Sunday, September 10, 2023 9:42 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission; Clerk

Subject: Comments on Rincon Building Inventory and Marketing Segmentation Memo
Attachments: COSM Bldg Decarb comments Dave Clark.pdf

Hello!

We are out of town this Wednesday when SIC is scheduled. Find attached comments our comments on the building
electrification strategy doc.

Sincerely,

Dave Clark
San Mateo Heat Pump Advocates

121 of 332


--- page 122 ---
Dave Clark
San Mateo Heat Pump Advocates

Friday September 8th 2023

| head up Heat Pump Advocates, a group which has 120 members that supports G2G (garage
to garage) electrification with other San Mateo residents. Many thanks to the city and our SIC
commissioners for moving ahead with this vital initiative. This work will be built on by other
cities and increase the speed that our communities can react and create viable policies. This
is a complicated issue, but we now have a clear direction with steps. | will advocate for a
continuation of this work. This document is labelled Task 1, and some remarks may fall out of
scope if there are additional modules.

Previous comments from residents reinforce the perils of climate change and the need to act
swiftly. Having more of an engineering / business mindset, our comments are of a technical
nature.

KEY CHALLENGES FOR GAS TO ELECTRIC UPDATES

e Economics - The consumer cost aspect is addressed, what will the outlay be for the city,
county?

e Workforce - State-wide shortage of skilled labor. Can the city tie into green workforce
initiatives? Would pre-wiring expedite electrification projects.

e Grid Capacity - Recent papers confirm that grid will not be adequate in the next 15 years
for full residential electrification (EV / appliances) unless methods such as DER are
deployed.
https://xenetwork. org/ets/episodes/episode-205-rebuilding-the-grid-from-the-bottom-up/

See also recent CPUC activity on Distributed Renewable Energy resources. How do we

get a head start on managing behind the meter resources, energy equity, community
based designs, and community-based resilience?

BIGGEST BANG FOR BUCK

This approach is referenced as "complete solutions" in another letter. Why target residential
stoves when they account for only 2% of emmissions (LBL) and require a 40A /240 service?
As this LBL study suggests:

https://homes |bl.gov/publications/challenges-and-opportunities-hame

The least cost approach to at least halve carbon emissions and energy use is to replace gas furnaces, boilers, and
water heaters with heat pumps, add onsite PV, and do basic air sealing and insulation. Replacing gas clothes
dryers and cooking is a lower priority because they consume a lot less energy and emit a lot less carbon; these
items can be re-prioritized for decarbonization at the time of appliance replacement — thus reducing the hard
upfront costs. Staged, partial decarbonization strategies are a key way to spread out costs to make them more
acceptable to consumers.

A goal of 100% elimination of fossil fuels may be counterproductive. Many papers have
touched on the disproportionate results where the last 10% of efforts consume the same

122 of 332


--- page 123 ---
resources as the first 90%. Let's identify the biggest sources of ghg that are the easiest to
remedy first.

COSTS

Another challenge is costs to property owners. This report has spelled them out as best
possible given the uncertainty of future funds. The equity component for LMI housing presents
its own challenges: condos represent a challenge because of limited physical (23" door) utility
space, condo-hoa rules, noise from adjoining walls. (Gas water heaters are always under 50
dB, HPVVH are never.) Roof mount solutions require complicated coordination that would be
more costly than gas replacement.

EOF2030

The previous city council supported an EOF 2030. A leader of a local climate group called this
“mathematically impossible”. City council folk have said that this is the shortest path to recall.
The fact is that fewer than 1% of homes are electrified. How can we possibly electrify the
remaining 99% in 7 years?

Look no further than page 30 of the report which shows that commercial systems are probably
cost-prohibitive.

City of San Mateo
Building Inventory and Market Segmentation Memorandum (Task 1)

family homes and estimating costs is typically only possible on a project-by-project basis.
This is because for most larger buildings, replacing a gas system with a similarly sized
electric system is cost-prohibitive and therefore, often requires building re-engineering to
determine appliance replacement and sizing options. For this reason, a detailed cost
analysis for larger multifamily and commercial buildings was not developed and included
here, Smaller buildings with domestic-sized space and water heating end uses, such as
small to medium-sized retail or service buildings, nave similar electrification costs as seen
for single-family homes.

These sorts of political statements are fine, because they move the needle, but in terms of
concrete municipal planning we should have a realistic plan. The original intent of EOF2030,
which was underwritten by dozens of environmental organizations, allowed for flexibility. For
example, 50% reduction in natural gas delivery by 2030?

What are other municipalities doing? One would think that the first order of business is
estimating the entire GHG emissions portfolio and setting goals based on that estimate. Can

Rincon recommend a different goal that is both reasonable and measurable? A framework for
setting goals?

SUGGESTIONS FOR IMPROVEMENT

123 of 332


--- page 124 ---
Rincon has experience performing the same assessment in Sacto and Berkeley. As with those,
this deliverable for San Mateo should be targeted at city government level. More technical
project details would helpful.

Single point of contact. The city should consider a conceirge approach that will support property
owners in this difficult transition. Other approaches such as bulk-purchase of appliance installs
are being tried in some cities without great success. In this model the city selects the vendor,
who does bulk electrification at a fixed prices.

Please address BAAQMD '27/'30 rule changes is a gating factor for electrification because ROB
could be mandatory, What is the current burn-out rate in the city of San Mateo?

Please show the total estimated ghg building emmisions by commercial / residential. Total ghg
reduction, number of appliances, PGE accounting for local gas consumption, etc. County stats
are a good start but all of the metrics should relative to the city.

page 3 figure 1: what does catalyst upgrade mean?

Building Segmentatiaon Analysis. Please include ownership of SFH and MFH because
purchasing patterns differ: renters will not electrify on their own, and working with landlords is a
different proposition. Ownership is key.

page 7: energy equity. Please identify challenges in LMI housing such as ownership, smaller
panel feeds, smaller spaces for equiment, landlord apathy. Would title 24 insulation take
precidence over electrification?

page 7: can you include building permit data? We have looked at rebate data from BAYREN
and PCE and there is good information here that can establish a baseline (costs, number of
systems, panel upgrade). Perhaps as a change order and separate deliverable that works out
details like this?

page 8: converting county numbers to estimated numbers for the city of san mateo would add
clarity.
what are the total commercial ghg / residential ghng numbers for comparison ?

pg 18: prewiring is a strategy that removes delays in HPVUH installation. This is being explored
by SVCE. Service upgrade can take weeks or months. Pre-wiringallows skilled electricical
contractors to safely wire and do "non-plumbing" ahead of time, promotes home-owner buy-in,
and distributes the workloads as non-emergency service over a few months.

pg 22: per tom kabat "watt diet" and others. The term "building electrical upgrade" is an umbrella
term that includes a panel upgrade option. People are confused because panel upgrade
sounds costly and is infrequent. According to a recent TECH report, in most cases a new panel
was nof required. ( https://techcleanca.com/public-data/ ). This study provides estimates for

124 of 332


--- page 125 ---
panel upgrades for about 15,000 houses in california. Electrification often requires electrical
upgrades and typically the existing panel will suffice. For example, load sharing devices can be
used to alleviate the nead for a new service. Many upgrades require an electrician, can be
expensive, but do not constitute a panel swap..

We need more discovery on out of bounds and low income cases. Given that fewer than 1% of
the SFH in San Mateo County have HPWH and an even smaller percentage are fully electrified,
there should be plenty of wiggle room to allow exceptions as we focus on the low hanging fruit.
Start on easy upgrades such as tract homes with similar floorplans and power drops.

Evidently commercial is the bigger challenge. Perhaps the city should focus on residential for
the next leg of the journey.

Some clean up of the draft

figure 7: 1M count of water heaters in county of only 750K residents

page 6: water heating 59% gas consumption based on blog data. I've been seeing <
40%

page 8: county data for water heaters doesn't seem to add up

other minutia

Dave Clark
Chair
San Mateo Heat Pump Advocates

BON SOLS ek WY OE
EXVAACTE AR MS TOb wdio

EOF 2030

125 of 332


--- page 126 ---
From: Annette Bianco
Sent: Monday, September 11, 2023 9:04 AM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Subject: Gas Law not fair to fixed/lower incomes

Requiring homes currently with gas stoves, dryers, water heaters, and home heating to convert to electric is a huge
expense for retired, disabled and low income residents. It's bad enough that you need to come up with hundreds to
thousands to buy the new appliance that breaks, but now you need to have money for the additional required 220
volt electrical circuits and possibly structural modifications. And what about permits? Not to mention that this will
take time that you will be without the critical appliance. If everyone is doing this all at once it could be a long wait
without the ability to heat your home, dry your clothes, cook your food or take showers!

126 of 332


--- page 127 ---
From: Shirley Freriks

Sent: Monday, September 11, 2023 10:00 AM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Ce: Robert Whitehair; Robert Whitehair

Subject: Comment Letter for meeting September 13 on decarbonizing and electrifying
Attachments: San Mateo electrify letter.docx

Thank you for entering this in the file to support this initiative

Shirley Freriks
May Peace and LOVE Prevail on Earth-
May the WELLBEING of our Earth Prevail!

It is time to TAKE ACTION in order to
regenerate our Earth’s environment.
Everything we are and have comes from
our a-little-less-than abundant Earth.

. See attached,

127 of 332


--- page 128 ---
To: SandiCommission@cityofsanmateo.org
Date: September 11. 2023

From: Shirley Freriks

Subject: Comment on Agenda item - “Establish policies to decarbonize and
electrify existing buildings and eliminate natural gas use by 2030.” Or "Electrify
San Mateo — Building for the Future: City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings
Strategy."

Decarbonization is a priority on all levels. Businesses and individuals must do
their parts. AND they will need help to do it. It seems the climate crisis is not
enough incentive, especially for businesses who seem more concerned about
the bottom line. Let’s give them a new bottom line — like what is the downside if
they do not start to do this?

Thank goodness your City is taking the lead for others to follow. | applaud you,
As you have said, “technical analysis and community engagement are needed
to develop a roadmap to clean energy buildings in San Mateo."

It is good to see that the City is aware of the need for offset strategies through
funding and financing for residents and business owners. This surely will help.
And what is the marketing strategy to build understanding and desire to put out
the extra buck to do this?

-Health is the biggest one for me.

-Housing equity also seems very important.

-Condo and apartment dwellers are at the mercy of the owners and

managers so need strong advocacy

-Any monetary savings for resident or business owner generated by

switching to electric?

-ls help available to figure out what can be done and for how much? Like

a list of contractors who do it? Make it easy to do.

| trust that you have the technical assistance and the community backing to get
this set in place. Thank you all for taking a strong leadership position on this
important piece of climate solutions. My County and Cities will be watching and
learning from you.

Thank you,

Shirley Freriks

Nevada County Climate Action Now hii

128 of 332


--- page 129 ---
From: ; Maurine Killough

Sent: Monday, September 11, 2023 3:41 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Going Green-converting from gas

| am very concerned about the proposal of having residences stripped of their ability to have access to
gas power. By limiting residents to electric it limits our options. This could be very expensive and IS it
truly green? Why are regular citizens being targeted? Can our power grid sustain such large amounts
of electricity? Isn’t it wise to have both available? | am very skeptical about all this and want to be
included in discussions but cannot make the 9/13 meeting. Thanks you.

Maurine Killough

129 of 332


--- page 130 ---
From: Michael

Sent: Monday, September 11, 2023 4:06 PM

To: Maurine Killough

Cc: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Re: Going Green-converting from gas

Great questions/concerns - write a note you know the drill ;-)
On Mon, Sep 11, 2023 at 3:41 PM Maurine Killough <mo@smilingeyestribe.com> wrote:

| am very concerned about the proposal of having residences stripped of their ability to have access
to gas power. By limiting residents to electric it limits our options. This could be very expensive and
IS it truly green? Why are regular citizens being targeted? Can our power grid sustain such large
amounts of electricity? Isn’t it wise to have both available? | am very skeptical about all this and want
to be included in discussions but cannot make the 9/13 meeting. Thanks you.

Maurine Killough

130 of 332


--- page 131 ---
From: Megan Strain

Sent: Monday, September 11, 2023 5:16 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Public Comment on Decarbonization Report

Dear San Mateo Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission,

| am a San Mateo resident and member of the San Mateo Climate Action Team. | thank you for sharing the draft report
from Rincon regarding San Mateo's decarbonization objective set by the City Council -- "Establish policies to
decarbonize and electrify existing buildings and eliminate natural gas use by 2030." am so grateful to live ina
community that is committed to sustainability goals like decarbonization. Now is the time to follow through!

| find the draft report encouraging, and | hope it will reignite our city's leadership to continue to take action to electrify
buildings. As climate change continues to shape our community, it is critical to take all the steps we can in the next few
years to combat climate change, with an eye for equity to ensure ail citizens are able to make the right decision for their
family and for the climate. With the Inflation Reduction Act rebates, many homeowners will find that electrification is
less expensive than replacing gas appliances, making decarbonization a "low-hanging fruit" for people wishing to do the
right thing for their home and the environment.

Building decarbonization is one of the most direct and immediate steps we can take; and | encourage our city to learn
from this report and continue this action while supporting the financial and practical means to ensure all residents can
take part.

Thank you,

Megan Strain
San Mateo Resident

131 of 332


--- page 132 ---
From: Brian Stewart

Sent: Monday, September 11, 2023 9:06 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Building Electrification

City of San Mateo Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Thank you for releasing the draft study, in response to the City Council’s approved objective for FY 23-24."Establish
policies to decarbonize and electrify existing buildings and eliminate natural gas use by 2030.”

Building electrification is one of the most important responses to the climate crisis. The framework provided by the
report authors, Rincon Consultants, will provide a clear path for every San Mateo homeowner, landlord, and commercial
property owner to take the one most direct, immediate step to stop the march of the climate crisis.

Multiple studies show that electrification is one of the most effective methods for reducing or even eliminating carbon
emissions from buildings. As the electric grid in California gets cleaner and cleaner, emissions from high efficiency
electric appliances become smaller and smaller. This is not true for gas burning devices.

Building electrification also has significant positive community benefits such as increased comfort, better indoor air
quality, lower energy costs and reduced outdoor air pollution. Building electrification can be implemented in ways that

also promote equity and reduce energy costs for those most burdened.

As the Rincon Consultants report notes, “Whole home electrification could be less expensive for building owners in San
Mateo than replacing appliances with gas once rebates are included."

We urge you to adopt this framework and push for measures to electrify buildings in San Mateo as quickly and equitably
as possible. Action such as this is urgently needed in all our cities across the country.

Thank you,

Brian Stewart
Founder
Electrify Now

132 of 332


--- page 133 ---
From: fert Whitenair

Sent: Tuesday, September 12, 2023 9:52 AM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Support for Decarbonization

Dear Sustainability and Infrastructure Commissioners:

| want to thank the Commission for its leadership and foresight in implementing the decarbonization objective
for the City of San Mateo and for releasing the draft study for review. San Mateo is one of just a handful of U.S.
cities taking decarbonization as seriously as the issue deserves.

Also, | urge you to continue the forward momentum on this process by supporting decarbonization in every
way possible, especially by focusing on building electrification.

Eliminating fossil fuel appliances from our city structures is urgent for the following reasons:

1) The warming climate, which is directly related to emissions of natural gas/methane, will have damaging
effects on the lives and livelihoods of San Mateans. We have seen that impacts include everything from
extreme heat (which is dangerous to children, the elderly, and the significant number of residents who lack air
conditioning), fiercer and wetter storms, and more frequent and more destructive wildfires. These are not crises
that San Mateans want, nor deserve. These are crises that interact and overlap since climate change is a
threat multiplier.

2) The methane gas we burn comes from dangerous practices such as hydraulic fracturing that pollute the
water and air and imperil frontline communities.

3) Burning methane in our homes here in San Mateo is an unsafe practice with many identified health risks, for
instance, from gas stoves.

4) Switching to electric will reduce costs in the long run (and far sooner when including incentives). Rewiring
America’s electrification guide estimates "Households will save on average $1,800 a year by going electric". As
technologies begin to scale, the costs will drop further. NREL reported in a recent model / study that "Higher
levels of electrification with rapid advancements in the cost and performance of end-use electric technologies

can result in net energy system savings—up to $800 billion in the high electrification scenario.”

5) Importantly, here in the Bay Area we are fortunate to have certain municipalities and CCAs in the vanguard
of electrification. For example, a wide variety of existing Peninsula Clean Energy rebates, newer tax credits
created by the Inflation Reduction Act, and other available funding makes electrification more affordable (as
the Rincon report indicates: "Whole home electrification could be less expensive for building owners in San
Mateo.

Thank you for your consideration of this important issue.
Teri Whitehair

Be The Change
Vegan Cooking with Purposel - YouTube

133 of 332


--- page 134 ---
From: Francie

Sent: Tuesday, September 12, 2023 12:12 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Fwd: Electrification dates

Resending...

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

From: Francie

Date: September 12, 2023 at 12:07:56 PM PDT
To: sandicommission@cityofsanmateo
Subject: Electrification dates

!am a resident of Central San Mateo and have concerns about the new date of 2025 that is being
proposed to require electrification. First, I'm not convinced that our city has power to provide to all
citizens during times of heavy use. This could be a major disaster if everyone is using the same power
source and it is not available. Secondly, | know that it is a financial burden for many homeowners to
switch and change if needed when replacing an appliance, especially in older homes. !’m hoping that if
this moves forward, there is plenty of assistance offered for those who cannot undertake this

change. Expensive home modifications are not an option for many families in our neighborhood.

Please don’t rush to implement change before all of the impacts to residents are considered.
Frances Souza

Sent from my iPhone

134 of 332


--- page 135 ---
From: Lisa Taner

Sent: Tuesday, September 12, 2023 1:23 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Cc: City Council (San Mateo)

Subject: City is Not Prepared for Fast-Tracking Electrification Mandates for Residents

Dear S&i Commissioners,

| must harken back to the decision of removing parking from North Central to create bike lanes - a decision which |
believe is now being reverted after much public outcry. A 'good idea” can easily become the opposite when there is
huge impact to the community or little community buy-in. | daresay your discussions requiring residents to remove their
gas appliances - and fast tracking it at that - will also have the same result.

There is still MUCH to consider.

San Mateo touts that it seeks an equitable environment for all its residents, yet where is the equity for costs related to
conversion for those with fixed incomes, those putting kids through college, those out of work, those living paycheck to

paycheck, etc.?

A good idea is only a good idea with great implementation. Please deeply consider all aspects before there is any more
forward movement.

Sincerely,

Lisa Taner
Resident

135 of 332


--- page 136 ---
From: Deborah Villanueva

Sent: Tuesday, September 12, 2023 4:11 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Ce: citycoucil@cityofsanmateo.irg

Subject: Do not ban gas or require conversion to all electric appliances!

As a resident and home owner in San Mateo, | am asking the Sustainability Commission to vote no and not to support
the banning of gas appliances or require conversion to all electric appliances! The science does not support this
movement of banning home usage of gas. The cost of conversion is unaffordable to almost all households. !am asking
you to listen to the homeowners of our City who oppose the banning of gas and conversion to electric appliances.

Thank you,

Deborah Villanueva

136 of 332


--- page 137 ---
From: Claire Shintani

Sent: Tuesday, September 12, 2023 4:42 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Requesting your continued support for decarbonization, with emphasis on building

electrification

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

My name is Claire Shintani and | am nineteen-years-old. As a member of the younger generation that will have
to bear the brunt of the impacts of climate change, | am grateful to the Commission for its leadership and
foresight in implementing the decarbonization objective for the City of San Mateo and for releasing the draft
study for review. San Mateo is one of just a handful of U.S. cities taking decarbonization as seriously as the
issue deserves. Kudos to you. At this time, however, | would also like to urge you to continue the forward
momentum on this process. We need to keep supporting decarbonization —through all means possible, but
specifically, by focusing on building electrification.

It is worth it to eliminate fossil fuel appliances from our city structures for the following reasons:

1) The warming climate, which is directly related to emissions of natural gas/methane, will have damaging
effects on the lives and livelihoods of San Mateans. We have seen that impacts include everything from
extreme heat (which is dangerous to children, the elderly, and the significant number of residents who lack air
conditioning), fiercer and wetter storms, and more frequent and more destructive wildfires. These are not crises
that San Mateans want, nor deserve. These are crises that interact and overlap since climate change is a
threat multiplier.

2) The methane gas we burn comes from dangerous practices such as hydraulic fracturing that pollute the
water and air and imperil frontline communities.

3) Burning methane in our homes here in San Mateo is an unsafe practice with many identified health risks, for
instance, from gas stoves.

4) Switching to electric will reduce costs in the long run (and far sooner when including incentives), Rewiring
America's electrification guide estimates "Households will save on average $1,800 a year by going electric”. As
technologies begin to scale, the costs will drop further. NREL reported in a recent model / study that “Higher
levels of electrification with rapid advancements in the cost and performance of end-use electric technologies

can result in net energy system savings—up to $800 billion in the high electrification scenario,"

5) Importantly, here in the Bay Area we are fortunate to have certain municipalities and CCAs in the vanguard
of electrification. For example, a wide variety of existing Peninsula Clean Energy rebates, newer tax credits
created by the Inflation Reduction Act, and other available funding makes electrification more affordable (as
the Rincon report indicates: "Whole home electrification could be less expensive for building owners in San
Mateo than replacing appliances with gas, once rebates are included").

Those who oppose decarbonization and want to choose business as usual are merely in denial that the future
is already getting hotter, more expensive, less predictable, and more deadly. | choose not to let that scenario
play out. Decarbonization is the better choice both from a moral and financial standpoint. With so many
common-sense reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo, | am hopeful that you will continue to
facilitate our progress on this issue.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to the public welfare.

d.

137 of 332


--- page 138 ---
Best,
Claire

138 of 332


--- page 139 ---
From: Lisa Vande Voorde

Sent: Tuesday, September 12, 2023 4:55 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Cec: City Council (San Mateo)

Subject: Electrification Mandate Upon Replacement of Gas Appliances

Dear Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission,

The public puts its trust in you. How can San Mateans trust a
commission like yours that suddenly fast-tracks a mandate to start
in 2025, only one and half years away, that you had originally
agreed to implement in 2030?

Who are you listening to? Certainly not to the majority of people of
San Mateo who have no agenda, who may choose gas over
electrical appliances upon upgrade (due to functionality, aesthetics,
or aging) for many reasons: The onerous cost of and extended wait
times involved with updating their electrical panel; fears of electrical
grid overload and power outages; fears of freezing in winter should
their electricity go out; being unable to cook during outages (unlike
electric, many gas ranges will still work without the electric pilot),
and more. All these situations simply magnify when a homeowner
suddenly has a gas appliance fail or break. That is an emergency
situation that will require IMMEDIATE action, and an IMMEDIATE
solution. You cannot ask people to wait weeks for a new furnace,
water heater, range/oven, or clothes dryer.

You claim to want to hear from all stakeholders. Let's see exactly

who you listen to. Lurge you to go back to your original
implementation date of 2030, and instead use this time to get
plans and infrastructure in place, to include:

139 of 332


--- page 140 ---
- Exempting replacements due to unplanned/emergency
appliance failure. Allow the replacement of sudden failed
gas appliances with gas appliances, and not
require replacement with electrical appliances. This will
give homeowners time to upgrade electrical panels.

- Give homeowners the option to switch to electric
appliances for both emergency and planned
replacement. Provide rebates and incentives to
encourage the switch.

- Ensure availability/accessibility to rebates/incentives for
ALL impacted homeowners, and additional rebates for
elderly/disadvantaged/low income.

- Limit the 2025 electrification mandate to NEW
construction and major remodels ONLY.

You are putting the cart before the horse in the race for a carbon-
neutral footprint, and in doing so, you SIGNIFICANTLY impact the
lives of 100,000 San Mateo residents. The horse may be ready,
but the cart and all its components are not. Take the time, and do it
right.

Thank you.

Lisa Vande Voorde
San Mateo Resident

140 of 332


--- page 141 ---
From: Maureen Galindo

Sent: Tuesday, September 12, 2023 5:03 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: House Electrical Conversions

Dear Committee Members,

Regarding your decision to convert the San Mateo homes to all electric, | am not in favor of your decision. 1am of the
belief that the city should offer incentives for those who choose to move to all electric appliances. In this case all those
that want to move away from natural gas appliances are free to do so. To require this conversion to

all electric appliances on the citizens is a terrible idea. You are forcing your will upon the public. We citizens pay the
mortgage and property taxes on our homes and should be allowed to make our own decisions as to the appliances that
we choose,

Please allow us to have the freedom to decide for ourselves whether we want all electric appliances. | believe that we
have the intelligence to make our own decisions.

Respectfully,
Maureen Galindo

‘

141 of 332


--- page 142 ---
From: sue

Sent: Tuesday, September 12, 2023 5:20 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Building electrification

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| am grateful to the Commission for its leadership and foresight in implementing the decarbonization objective
for the City of San Mateo and for releasing the draft study for review. | am proud that San Mateo is one of just
a handful of U.S. cities taking decarbonization as seriously as the issue deserves. At this time, however, |
would also like to urge you to continue the forward momentum on this process. We need to keep supporting
decarbonization —through all means possible, but specifically, by focusing on building electrification.

It is worth it to eliminate fossil fuel appliances from our city structures for the following reasons:

1) The warming climate, which is directly related to emissions of natural gas/methane, will have damaging
effects on the lives and livelihoods of residents of San Mateo. We have seen that impacts include everything
from extreme heat (which is dangerous to children, the elderly, and the significant number of residents who
lack air conditioning), fiercer and wetter storms, and more frequent and more destructive wildfires. These are
not crises that residents of San Mateo want, nor deserve. These are crises that interact and overlap since
climate change is a threat multiplier.

2) The methane gas we burn comes from dangerous practices such as hydraulic fracturing that pollute the
water and air and imperil frontline communities.

3) Burning methane in our homes here in San Mateo is an unsafe practice with many identified health risks, for
instance, from gas stoves.

4) Switching to electric will reduce costs in the long run (and far sooner when including incentives). Rewiring
America's electrification guide estimates "Households will save on average $1,800 a year by going electric’. As
technologies begin to scale, the costs will drop further. NREL reported in a recent model / study that "Higher
levels of electrification with rapid advancements in the cost and performance of end-use electric technologies

can result in net energy system savings—up to $800 billion in the high electrification scenario."

5) Importantly, here in the Bay Area we are fortunate to have certain municipalities and CCAs in the vanguard
of electrification. For example, a wide variety of existing Peninsula Clean Energy rebates, newer tax credits
created by the Inflation Reduction Act, and other available funding makes electrification more affordable (as
the Rincon report indicates: “Whole home electrification could be less expensive for building owners in San
Mateo than replacing appliances with gas, once rebates are included’).

Those who oppose decarbonization and want to choose business as usual are merely in denial that the future
is already getting hotter, more expensive, less predictable, and more deadly. | choose not to let that scenario
play out. Decarbonization is the better choice both from a moral and financial standpoint. With so many
common-sense reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo, | am hopeful that you will continue to
facilitate our progress on this issue,

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to the public welfare.

Sue Blockstein
San Mateo resident

142 of 332


--- page 143 ---
From: Anne Adams

Sent: Tuesday, September 12, 2023 5:59 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Thank you

Importance: High

SRBVIGCHS i
PELOSI

September 12, 2023

Dear Chair Rowinski and Commissioners

I thank you all and the City of San Mateo for releasing the draft decarbonization study
prepared by Rincon Consultants.

Building electrification is one of the most impactful responses to the climate crisis. The
framework provided by Rincon will provide a clear path for every San Mateo homeowner,
landlord, and commercial property owner to take the one most direct, immediate step to stop
the march of the climate crisis: Electrify Everything!

My home is slowly being transformed into an all-electric residence, Using funding from the
Inflation Reduction and Peninsula Clean Energy, I will be able to eliminate more than 12 tons of
global warming carbon dioxide emissions, every single year, That is on top of substantial
emissions reductions created from buying electricity from Peninsula Clean Energy.

I strongly urge the Sustainability and infrastructure Commission to continue the strong City
Council objective to decarbonize buildings and end the use of gas.

I am also aware that there are strong forces in the United States working to kill the Inflation
Reduction Act. I want you to know that I am working with SMCAT and many San Mateo
residents so that the IRA continues to thrive.

Thank you all for your commitment to our Earth, our World, to our community!
Anne Adams, PhD

https://integrality.co/
https://humanenergycollaborative.com/

143 of 332


--- page 144 ---
From: Oser, Roge

Sent: Tuesday, September 12, 2023 6:14 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Electric Conversions

To Whom it May Concern-

My understanding is that the City of San Mateo is considering banning all electric
stoves and appliances, including those currently installed.

Based on research, | also understand that these items contribute very little to
“climate change” and therefore believe this is a burden all homeowners should not
have to bear...applying this to new homes and remodels is more than what is
reasonably needed.

Please be prudent with regard to your decisions on this matter.

Many thanks!

Roger

Roger Oser

NOTICE: This e-mail message and any attachments are intended solely for the use of the
intended recipient, and may contain information that is confidential, privileged and
exempt from disclosure under applicable law. If you are not the intended recipient, you
are not permitted to read, disclose, reproduce, distribute, use or take any action in
reliance upon this message and any attachments, and we request that you promptly notify
the sender and immediately delete this message and any attachments as well as any copies
thereof. Delivery of this message to an unintended recipient is not intended to waive any
right or privilege. Newmark is neither qualified nor authorized to give legal or tax

144 of 332


--- page 145 ---
advice, and any such advice should be obtained from an appropriate, qualified
professional advisor of your own choosing.

145 of 332


--- page 146 ---
From: a

Sent: Tuesday, September 12, 2023 7:41 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Subject: Support for the City of San Mateo Decarbonization Goals and Strategy

Dear Commissioners,

Thank you for your efforts to set and rigorously evaluate pathways toward San Mateo’s ambitious 2030 “End of Flow”
goal, Reaching this goal will rightly be a challenge and it demonstrates the level of commitment that the climate crisis
calls for.

San Mateo is playing an exemplary role by doing its detailed study of its situation and creating specific plans to
overcome the barriers to success. Peninsula communities share a strong and common interest in making it easier for
residents and businesses to play their part in going electric. The Rincon study already serves as a well informed and
transparent framework with specific criteria, building and device inventories and incremental retrofit cost data required
in order to rationally evaluate decarbonization strategies. The simple, common sense rule guiding the work, to electrify
on replacement wherever feasible, from now on is easily understandable. This is the quickest and cheapest route to
meaningful climate protection and the important co-benefits described in the report.

Please follow through in itemizing and prioritizing the many smart actions mentioned in the report. The market is
changing rapidly as new solutions and approaches are introduced and new incentives at the state and federal level
arrive. The Advance Water Heating Initiative field study reports that the new 110 volt heat pump water heaters are
satisfying the large majority of study customers and reducing energy use by 85%. There are an increasing number of low
current and circuit sharing devices reducing the need for panel upgrades. It will be useful for San Mateo to capture the
installation data in some detail, highlight success stories and share best practices that local building owners experience
in order to rapidly raise awareness and confidence in the electrification process. This kind of granular data will also help
the city improve and expand its programs.

San Mateo’s example is all the more important given the coming Air District emission standards. | am sure that other
cities and utilities in the whole Peninsula area will be working hard with your community to demonstrate the feasibility
of building electrification leading up to an Air District assessment in 2025.

Sincerely and with Friendly Regards,

Bret Andersen, Carbon Free Palo Alto

146 of 332


--- page 147 ---
From: Nikki Donovan

Sent: Tuesday, September 12, 2023 8:16 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Student Support for Decarbonization

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| am grateful to the Commission for its leadership and foresight in implementing the decarbonization objective
for the City of San Mateo and for releasing the draft study for review. San Mateo is one of just a handful of U.S.
cities taking decarbonization as seriously as the issue deserves. Kudos to you. At this time, however, | would
also like to urge you to continue the forward momentum on this process. We need to keep supporting
decarbonization —through all means possible, but specifically, by focusing on building electrification.

It is worth it to eliminate fossil fuel appliances from our city structures for the following reasons:

1) The warming climate, which is directly related to emissions of natural gas/methane, will have damaging
effects on the lives and livelihoods of San Mateans. We have seen that impacts include everything from
extreme heat (which is dangerous to children, the elderly, and the significant number of residents who lack air
conditioning), fiercer and wetter storms, and more frequent and more destructive wildfires. These are not crises
that San Mateans want, nor deserve. These are crises that interact and overlap since climate change is a
threat multiplier.

2) The methane gas we burn comes from dangerous practices such as hydraulic fracturing that pollute the
water and air and imperil frontline communities.

3) Burning methane in our homes here in San Mateo is an unsafe practice with many identified health risks, for
instance, from gas stoves.

4) Switching to electric will reduce costs in the long run (and far sooner when including incentives). Rewiring
America's electrification guide estimates "Households will save on average $1,800 a year by going electric". As
technologies begin to scale, the costs will drop further. NREL reported in a recent model / study that "Higher
levels of electrification with rapid advancements in the cost and performance of end-use electric technologies

can result in net energy system savings—up to $800 billion in the high electrification scenario."

5) Importantly, here in the Bay Area we are fortunate to have certain municipalities and CCAs in the vanguard
of electrification. For example, a wide variety of existing Peninsula Clean Energy rebates, newer tax credits
created by the Inflation Reduction Act, and other available funding makes electrification more affordable (as
the Rincon report indicates: “Whole home electrification could be less expensive for building owners in San
Mateo than replacing appliances with gas, once rebates are included").

Those who oppose decarbonization and want to choose business as usual are merely in denial that the future
is already getting hotter, more expensive, less predictable, and more deadly. | choose not to let that scenario
play out. Decarbonization is the better choice both from a moral and financial standpoint. With so many
common-sense reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo, | am hopeful that you will continue to
facilitate our progress on this issue.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to the public welfare.

Best,
Nikki Donovan

147 of 332


--- page 148 ---
From: Ruthmary Cradler

Sent: Tuesday, September 12, 2023 8:33 PM

To: Lisa Vande Voorde

Ce: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission; City Council (San Mateo)
Subject: Re: Electrification Mandate Upon Replacement of Gas Appliances

Whew! You go girl G3

Ruthmary Cradler
Sent from my iPhone

On Sep 12, 2023, at 4:56 PM, Lisa Vande voorde I wrote:

Dear Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission,

The public puts its trust in you. How can San Mateans
trust a commission like yours that suddenly fast-tracks a
mandate to start in 2025, only one and half years away,
that you had originally agreed to implement in 2030?

Who are you listening to? Certainly not to the majority of
people of San Mateo who have no agenda, who may
choose gas over electrical appliances upon upgrade (due
to functionality, aesthetics, or aging) for many reasons:
The onerous cost of and extended wait times involved with
updating their electrical panel; fears of electrical grid
overload and power outages; fears of freezing in winter
should their electricity go out; being unable to cook during
outages (unlike electric, many gas ranges will still work
without the electric pilot), and more. All these situations
simply magnify when a homeowner suddenly has a gas
appliance fail or break. That is an emergency situation that
will require IMMEDIATE action, and an IMMEDIATE

148 of 332


--- page 149 ---
solution. You cannot ask people to wait weeks for a new
furnace, water heater, range/oven, or clothes dryer.

You claim to want to hear from all stakeholders. Let's see

exactly who you listen to. Lurge you to go back to your
original implementation date of 2030, and instead use

this time to get plans and infrastructure in place, to
include:

- Exempting replacements due to
unplanned/emergency appliance failure. Allow the
replacement of sudden failed gas appliances with
gas appliances, and not require replacement with
electrical appliances. This will give homeowners
time to upgrade electrical panels.

Give homeowners the option to switch to electric
appliances for both emergency and planned
replacement. Provide rebates and incentives to
encourage the switch.

- Ensure availability/accessibility to
rebates/incentives for ALL impacted homeowners,
and additional rebates for
elderly/disadvantaged/low income.

. Limit the 2025 electrification mandate to NEW
construction and major remodels ONLY.

You are putting the cart before the horse in the race for a
carbon-neutral footprint, and in doing so, you
SIGNIFICANTLY impact the lives of 100,000 San Mateo
residents. The horse may be ready, but the cart and all its
components are not. Take the time, and do it right.

2

149 of 332


--- page 150 ---
Thank you.

Lisa Vande Voorde
San Mateo Resident

150 of 332


--- page 151 ---
From: Rita Armstrong

Sent: Tuesday, September 12, 2023 8:34 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission; City Council (San Mateo)
Subject: Fast-track banning of gas appliances

C'mon. Are you really going to make residents of San Mateo convert existing gas
stoves and other appliances from gas to something else? Even cities which have
adopted a no-gas policy apply the ruling to new construction and remodels of existing
facilities only. Are you really going to make me take out my fully-functioning gas stove
and replace it with something else? Replacing gas appliances would be enormously
expensive, especially if the space in question is a kitchen. Replacement would involve
electrical work, cabinetry re-work, and probably flooring work as well. You're talking
about half a kitchen remodel for equipment that is currently functional. What a waste of
time and money. And how arrogant are you to think that this is no big deal? I'm
appalled.

To be clear, I fully support conversion to other energy sources in cases of new
construction or remodels, and would willingly participate with this type of ruling. What
you're proposing is costly and needless. The only people who would benefit are
contractors and appliance vendors. Are they making contributions to your campaign?

Why don't you focus on things that would make a tangible and appreciable difference for
San Mateans, like more and better bike lanes? better recycling efforts, especially in
public facilities like parks? closing off more downtown streets for foot and bike traffic?
replacing weak and dangerous trees with more sustainable varieties? Converting
dormant lots (like the one at the corner of El Camino and 3rd) into parklets until a better
use can be found? I could go on and on. Call me at the number below if you want more
ideas.

Rita Armstron

151 of 332


--- page 152 ---
From: Genel Morgan

Sent: Tuesday, September 12, 2023 9:29 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Ce: City Council (San Mateo); Patrice Olds
Subject: Fast track mandate for electrification

Dear Sustainability Commission,
| strongly oppose your intent to fast track the mandate for electrification of homes in San Mateo.

While | support attention to protecting the environment, there needs to be reality and common sense used when
making decisions that affect so many San Mateo residents in a negative manner.

What incentives and rebates will be offered to residents who can't afford switching over gas appliances etc to electric? |
want to know specific amounts before you vote. As a senior citizen ona fixed income, | cannot afford to meet sucha
mandate. A few years ago, | put in a new furnace and A/C unit. | cannot afford, now, to replace them!!!

How can you recommend more people switch to electric when we have experienced so many more power outages than
in the past. Can the power grid handle the increased demand resulting from your mandate? | doubt it. Until there is
enough capacity of the power grid to handle increased electrical demand, you should NOT mandate people switch over
from .gas to electric.

At present when there is a power outage | can at least cook my food because | have a gas cooktop. If | had an electric
cooktop | would be eating cold cereal but probably would not be able to put milk on it because |! wouldn't want to open
my fridge!

| have lived in my home for 28 years and | have lost power more times and for longer periods in the last year than | have
in the 27 prior years. Demand on the electric grid has gone up so that the capacity can't handle it. People were even told
not to charge their cars to not stress the power grid.

As leaders in the community, you MUST make decisions for ALL residents. Take into consideration the needs of ALL
residents before you decide whether to fast track the switchover to electric. It definitely should not be mandated to be
done all at once. As appliances need replacing is the common sense way to do it. The expense for residents is not just
paying for the appliance. Many houses need electrical work to support the increased demand.

Please step back and re-evaluate how switching from gas to electric can be done.
Sincerely,

Genel Morgan
San Mateo

152 of 332


--- page 153 ---
From: Cheryl Weide

Sent: Tuesday, September 12, 2023 10:01 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Support elimination of Fossil Fuel appliances

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release of the draft study for
review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for health and financial reasons:

* Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality Management District
recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters and HVAC systems due to the health
effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives
and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note, this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

e Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming climate with adverse
effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather
cause of death. Climate change multiplies these threats.

¢ Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our environment and
frontline communitie

* Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households by an estimated
$1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

* Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification affordable and
accessible

* Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce the need for
extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development support electrification.

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier, and less predictable future.
Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate
electrification in San Mateo, | urge you to continue facilitating our progress.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Cheryl Weiden

153 of 332


--- page 154 ---
suaNmacesewS VIIKHIOWH Vue

Sent: Tuesday, Senter - -” 10:07 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Electrifying buildings helps solve climate change

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

] am grateful to the Commission for its leadership and foresight in implementing the decarbonization objective for the City of San Mateo and
for releasing the draft study for review. San Mateo is one of just a handful of U.S. cities taking decarbonization as seriously as the issue
deserves. Kudos to you. At this time, however, I would also like to urge you to continue the forward momentum on this process. We need to
keep supporting decarbonization ——through all means possible, but specifically, by focusing on building electrification.

It is worth it to eliminate fossil fuel appliances from our city structures for the following reasons:

1) The warming climate, which is directly related to emissions of natural gas/methane, will have damaging effects on the lives and
livelihoods of San Mateans, We have seen that impacts include everything from extreme heat (which is dangerous to children, the elderly,
and the significant number of residents who lack air conditioning), fiercer and wetter storms, and more frequent and more destructive
wildfires. These are not crises that San Mateans want, nor deserve. These are crises that interact and overlap since climate change is a threat
multiplier.

2) The methane gas we burn comes from dangerous practices such as hydraulic fracturing that pollute the water and air and imperil}
frontline communities.

3) Burning methane in our homes here in San Mateo is an unsafe practice with many identified health risks, for instance, from gas stoves.

4) Switching to electric will reduce costs in the long run (and far sooner when including incentives). Rewiring America's electrification guide
estimates "Households will save on average $1,800 a year by going electric”. As technologies begin to scale, the costs will drop further, NREL
reported in a recent model / study that “Higher levels of electrification with rapid advancements in the cost and performance of end-use

electric technologies can result in net energy system savings—up to $800 billion in the high electrification scenario.”

5) Importantly, here in the Bay Area we are fortunate to have certain municipalities and CCAs in the vanguard of electrification. For example,

a wide variety of existing Peninsula Clean Energy rebates, newer tax credits created by the Inflation Reduction Act, and other available

funding makes electrification more affordable (as the Rincon report indicates: “Whole home electrification could be less expensive for
building owners in San Mateo than replacing appliances with gas, once rebates are included").

Those who oppose decarbonization and want to choose business as usual are merely in denial that the future is already getting hotter, more
expensive, less predictable, and more deadly, 1 choose not to let that scenario play out. Decarbonization is the better choice both from a
moral and financial standpoint. With so many common-sense reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo, | am hopeful that you will
continue to facilitate our progress on this issue,

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to the public welfare.

154 of 332


--- page 155 ---
From: Roisin McElarn

Sent: Tuesday, September 12, 2023 10:08 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Reach Codes

Hello,

Thank you for your progress on green reach codes this past year. | strongly support all city environmental action. It is
crucial we act quickly and aggressively to fight climate change. Electrification is an immediate and direct way to stop
climate change.

As a young person, my entire life has been effected by climate change. I've been kept out of school because of wildfires
and unable to participate in sports because of extreme temperatures.

| urge you to protect these reach codes and the future of San Mateans.

Roisin McElarney
Voter/Constituent, Co Lead Citizens Climate Lobby San Mateo

155 of 332


--- page 156 ---
From: Kayla ing

Sent: Tuesday, September 12, 2023 10:40 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: San Mateo Reach Codes

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| am grateful to the Commission for its leadership and foresight in implementing the decarbonization objective for the
City of San Mateo and for releasing the draft study for review. San Mateo is one of just a handful of US. cities taking
decarbonization as seriously as the issue deserves. Kudos to you. At this time, however, | would also like to urge you to
continue the forward momentum on this process. We need to keep supporting decarbonization —through all means
possible, but specifically, by focusing on building electrification. It is worth it to eliminate fossil fuel appliances from our
city structures for the following reasons:

1) The warming climate, which is directly related to emissions of natural gas/methane, will have damaging effects on
the lives and livelihoods of San Mateans. We have seen that impacts include everything from extreme heat (which is
dangerous to children, the elderly, and the significant number of residents who lack air conditioning), fiercer and wetter
storms, and more frequent and more destructive wildfires. These are not crises that San Mateans want, nor deserve.
These are crises that interact and overlap since climate change is a threat multiplier.

2) The methane gas we burn comes from dangerous practices such as hydraulic fracturing that pollute the water and air
and imperil frontline communities.

3) Burning methane in our homes here in San Mateo is an unsafe practice with many identified health risks, for
instance, from gas stoves,

4) Switching to electric will reduce costs in the long run (and far sooner when including incentives). Rewiring America's
electrification guide estimates “Households will save on average $1,800 a year by going electric”. As technologies begin
to scale, the costs will drop further. NREL reported in a recent model / study that "Higher levels of electrification with
rapid advancements in the cost and performance of end-use electric technologies can result in net energy system
savings—up to $800 billion in the high electrification scenario."

5) Importantly, here in the Bay Area we are fortunate to have certain municipalities and CCAs in the vanguard of
electrification. For example, a wide variety of existing Peninsula Clean Energy rebates, newer tax credits created by the
Inflation Reduction Act, and other available funding makes electrification more affordable (as the Rincon report
indicates: “Whole home electrification could be less expensive for building owners in San Mateo than replacing
appliances with gas, once rebates are included").

Those who oppose decarbonization and want to choose business as usual are merely in denial that the future is already
getting hotter, more expensive, less predictable, and more deadly. | choose not to let that scenario play out.
Decarbonization is the better choice both from a moral and financial standpoint. With so many common-sense reasons
to accelerate electrification in San Mateo, | am hopeful that you will continue to facilitate our progress on this issue.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to the public welfare.

Best,
Kayla Ling

156 of 332


--- page 157 ---
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Rebecca Young

Tuesday, September 12, 2023 10:53 PM

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release

of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| am deeply concerned about the climate crisis, and the impact that climate chaos will have -
and is already having - on our communities here in the Bay Area as well as communities

around the world.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from San Mateo's structures, primarily for

health, climate, and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified heaith risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households

by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

157 of 332


--- page 158 ---
Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

{ urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Rebecca Young

158 of 332


--- page 159 ---
From: Kostas Paparrizos

Sent: Tuesday, September 12, 2023 11:21 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: San Mateo Sustainability Measures

Dear Sustainability and Infrastructure Commissioners,

As a youth, climate change has been a major source of anxiety in my life. | have missed several days of school because of
wildfires largely caused by climate change. My neighborhood in San Mateo is only 7 feet above sea level. | have heard
predictions that by 2030, my home may be impacted by severe flooding. | am afraid that, without direct action, these
impacts will only worsen.

Because of this, | would like to thank you for all of the work you have done regarding sustainability in San Mateo. The
actions you have taken to address climate change, such as implementing reach codes to bring about more sustainable
buildings, have been a source of hope for me and many other youth. | believe that direct action, such as that which you
have taken, is critical to taking action against climate change.

As such, | think it is vital to continue taking steps to electrify San Mateo. Electrification is one of the best ways to reduce
carbon emissions and help address climate change. Along with this, research suggests that electric technologies will help
to save citizens hundreds of dollars, while also replacing much more dangerous appliances such as gas stoves.

For the future of San Mateo citizens, and especially the youth, | urge you to continue fighting for electrification and
decarbonization.

Sincerely,

Konstantinos Paparrizos
CCL San Mateo Youth Group Member

159 of 332


--- page 160 ---
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Kristel ck

Tuesday, September [2, :

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Public Comment Re: SIC Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release
of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households
by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

160 of 332


--- page 161 ---
Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter. costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

161 of 332


--- page 162 ---
From: Rafael Reyes

Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 12:23 AM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Support for Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release of the draft
study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for health and financial
reasons:

« Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters and
HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff report
estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note, this is for
outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

* Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming climate with
adverse effects on residents' lives, from extreme heat to more destructive wildfires. Extreme heat is
the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these threats.

+» Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households by an
estimated $1,800 annually. In addition, the cost of methane gas is projected to increase significantly
over time. As gas costs increase and technologies advance, economic benefits will further increase
with electric appliances.

* Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our
environment and frontline communities

+ Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification
affordable and accessible

* Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce the
need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development support
electrification.

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier, and less
predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial considerations. With numerous
compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo, | urge you to continue facilitating our progress.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Rafael Reyes
Bay Meadows, San Mateo

162 of 332


--- page 163 ---
Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 12:55 AM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

The City of San Mateo has been a leader in addressing climate change. Please keep up the

good work.

Eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures will improve safety and health and
money. The future is clear. With the Air Resource Board's goal of prohibiting the sale of new
gas furnaces and water heaters by 2030, we will all need to transition away from fossil fuels

soon. Why not help pave the way for other cities to follow your lead?

| can sense the change in people's attitudes. While lunching with an elderly friend today who
lives in San Mateo, | recalled how loudly she complained last year about the idea of having
her gas stove taken away. But a big surprise: Today she said she was looking forward to
replacing her dirty old furnace with help from local, state and federal rebates because it would
her asthma. An added bonus she didn't even know about: her heat pump space heater will

also provide air conditioning,
Thanks for your consideration
Sincerely,

Terry Nagel

Former Mayor, Burlingame

Terry Nagel

163 of 332


--- page 164 ---
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Charles Pierce

Wednesday, September 13, 2023 3:27 AM

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release

of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year, Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households

by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification,

164 of 332


--- page 165 ---
Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Charles Piercey

165 of 332


--- page 166 ---
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

glen100@gmail.co

Wednesday, <p ter
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release
of the draft study for review. | lived in San Mateo for five years from 2001-2006. San Mateo's

commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for
health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health |Jmpacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents' lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households

by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

166 of 332


--- page 167 ---
Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

167 of 332


--- page 168 ---
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Leane Eberhart aa

Wednesday, September 13, 2023 6:28 AM

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release

of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households

by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

168 of 332


--- page 169 ---
Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Leane Eberhart

169 of 332


--- page 170 ---
From: Sarah Hubbard

Sent: Wednesday, A ss mrrcaccee.s oe
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: | support the City's building decarbonization

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release of the draft
study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for health and financial
reasons:

« Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters and
HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff report
estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note, this is for
outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

* Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming climate with
adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive wildfires. Extreme heat is
the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these threats.

e Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our
environment and frontline communitie

* Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households by an
estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

¢ Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification
affordable and accessible

+ Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce the
need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development support
electrification.

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier, and less
predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial considerations. With numerous
compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo, | urge you to continue facilitating our progress.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.
Sincerely,

Sarah Hubbard

San Mateo -_ i; years)

170 of 332


--- page 171 ---
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Wednesday, September 13, 2023 7:48 AM

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release

of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health t!mpacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households

by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification -

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

171 of 332


--- page 172 ---
Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Michael Colgan

172 of 332


--- page 173 ---
From: Mary Rose LeBaron

Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 7:52 AM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: City building decarbonization

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release of the draft
study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city’s structures, primarily for health and financial
reasons:

+ Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters and
HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff report
estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note, this is for
outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

¢ Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming climate with
adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive wildfires. Extreme heat is
the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these threats.

e Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our
environment and frontline communitie

¢ Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households by an
estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

+ Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification
affordable and accessible

* Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce the
need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development support
electrification.

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier, and less
predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial considerations. With numerous
compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo, | urge you to continue facilitating our progress.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,
Mary Rose LeBaron

173 of 332


--- page 174 ---
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Donna Davies

Wednesday, Bum eevee

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release

of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households

by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

174 of 332


--- page 175 ---
Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Donna Davies

175 of 332


--- page 176 ---
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Felix Mbuga

Wednesday, September 13, 2023 8:03 AM

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

We have a moral responsibility to our children and our grandchildren to “not* leave them a
planet in *worse* condition than we received it that is devastated by climate pollution. The
science is clear that this means: no more fossil fuel subsidies or expansion or investment in
fossil fuel infrastructure, winding down existing fossil fuel production and consumption as

quickly as possible, and rapidly expanding clean carbon-free energy production.

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release

of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents' lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households

by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

176 of 332


--- page 177 ---
Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and loca! workforce development

support electrification.

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.
Sincerely,

B reiix Mbuga

177 of 332


--- page 178 ---
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Wendy Cho

Wednesday, September 13, 2023 8:06 AM
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release

of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households

by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

178 of 332


--- page 179 ---
Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress,
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Wendy Chou

179 of 332


--- page 180 ---
From: Yutian Cheng a
Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 8:23 AM

Cc: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Reach code for decarbonization

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

As a resident in San Mateo County, | am grateful to the Commission for its leadership and
foresight in implementing the decarbonization objective for the City of San Mateo and for
releasing the draft study for review. San Mateo is one of just a handful of U.S. cities taking
decarbonization as seriously as the issue deserves. Kudos to you. At this time, however, | would
also like to urge you to continue the forward momentum on this process. We need to keep
supporting decarbonization —through all means possible, but specifically, by focusing on building
electrification.

It is worth it to eliminate fossil fuel appliances from our city structures for the following reasons:
1) The warming climate, which is directly related to emissions of natural gas/methane, will have
damaging effects on the lives and livelihoods of San Mateans. We have seen that impacts include
everything from extreme heat (which is dangerous to children, the elderly, and the significant
number of residents who lack air conditioning), fiercer and wetter storms, and more frequent and
more destructive wildfires. These are not crises that San Mateans want, nor deserve. These are
crises that interact and overlap since climate change is a threat multiplier,

2) The methane gas we burn comes from dangerous practices such as hydraulic fracturing that
pollute the water and air and imperil frontline communities.

3) Burning methane in our homes here in San Mateo is an unsafe practice with many identified
health risks, for instance, from gas stoves.

4) Switching to electric will reduce costs in the long run (and far sooner when including
incentives), Rewiring America's electrification guide estimates "Households will save on average
$1,800 a year by going electric". As technologies begin to scale, the costs will drop further, NREL
reported in a recent model / study that "Higher levels of electrification with rapid advancements
in the cost and performance of end-use electric technologies can result in net energy system
savings—up to $800 billion in the high electrification scenario."

5) Importantly, here in the Bay Area we are fortunate to have certain municipalities and CCAs in
the vanguard of electrification. For example, a wide variety of existing Peninsula Clean Energy
rebates, newer tax credits created by the Inflation Reduction Act, and other available funding
makes electrification more affordable (as the Rincon report indicates: “Whole home electrification
could be less expensive for building owners in San Mateo than replacing appliances with gas, once
rebates are included"),
Those who oppose decarbonization and want to choose business as usual are merely in denial
that the future is already getting hotter, more expensive, less predictable, and more deadly. |

choose not to let that scenario play out. Decarbonization is the better choice both from a moral
1

180 of 332


--- page 181 ---
and financial standpoint. With so many common-sense reasons to accelerate electrification in San
Mateo, | am hopeful that you will continue to facilitate our progress on this issue.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to the public welfare.

Sincerely,
Yutian Cheng

181 of 332


--- page 182 ---
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Linh Dan ae
Wednesday, September 13, 2023 8:24 AM

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release

of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households

by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

182 of 332


--- page 183 ---
Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo.

! urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Linh Dan Do

183 of 332


--- page 184 ---
* From: Catherine Kungler keris

Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 8:24 AM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: End of fossil fuel

Hi

| would like to provide you with my full support for the decarbonization of San Mateo county,

1am a resident, and have almost fully switched to electricity (EV, heat pump, solar panels, induction cooktop/ electric
oven) and | think everybody should do so.

Not only does this save me money in the long run, but it is absolutely necessary to stop fossil fuels as soon as possible if

we want to limit future wildfires and don't want to see half of San Mateo under the water.

| think San Mateo is very advanced by removing gas appliances and it should continue its effort to inspire other cities.
With such disinformation (I'm volunteering in a non-profit that educates people on it, and the general public here does
not know ANYTHING about climate change), how can people without scientific background can have any knowledge of
the potential impacts this is going to have on our community?

Even if people don't trust in climate change, they should at least be sensible to the argument gas / methane is harmful
for children.

Thank you
Catherine

184 of 332


--- page 185 ---
From: Erin Chumas

Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 8:27 AM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Decarbonization in San Mateo

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release of the draft
study for review. San Mateo’s commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for health and financial
reasons:

« Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters and
HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff report
estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note, this is for
outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse,

* Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming climate with
adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive wildfires. Extreme heat is
the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these threats.

» Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our
environment and frontline communitie

* Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households by an
estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

e Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification
affordable and accessible

* Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce the
need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development support
electrification.

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier, and less

predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial considerations. With numerous
compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo, | urge you to continue facilitating our progress.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,
Erin Chumas

185 of 332


--- page 186 ---
186 of 332


--- page 187 ---
rrom,.
Sent:
To:
Subject:

INalILy Meuiey

Wednesday, SEE

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release

of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents' lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households

by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

187 of 332


--- page 188 ---
Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter. costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating cur progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Nancy

Nancy Hedley

188 of 332


--- page 189 ---
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Igor Tregub

Wednesday, September 13, 2023 8:31 AM

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release

of the draft study for review. San Mateo’'s commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households

by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from focal initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

189 of 332


--- page 190 ---
Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare

Sincerely,

Igor Tregub

190 of 332


--- page 191 ---
trom:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

NICole Kemeny
Wednesday, September 13, 2023 8:34 AM

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

It has become impossible to avoid seeing the destruction global warming has wrought, and we
have only experienced less than half the warming we are on track to create. The quality of life
for our children and unborn generations is in our hands. When things go terribly wrong, it is

always because many, many people either do the wrong thing, or turn a blind eye and enable

the wrongdoing. We must do the right thing.

| appreciate the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release of the draft study

for review.
| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures.

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households

by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

191 of 332


--- page 192 ---
Loca! Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Nicole Kemeny

192 of 332


--- page 193 ---
From: kelly Chon

Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 8:38 AM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: San Mateo Electrification

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

Thus far, San Mateo has been among only a handful of other cities that take decarbonization as seriously as it deserves
to be treated. As a born and raised resident for all 19 years of my life, | have always felt a stroke of pride to be a San
Matean - I've been to the town hails, I've talked to the local politicians, | know the streets by heart. I've always felt that
the City of San Mateo government is one that | can trust - one that ultimately holds the best interests of the residents,
and most importantly, one that genuinely listens to them. | am truly grateful to the Commission for its leadership and
foresight in implementing the decarbonization objective, as well as the reach codes, which | have watched come to
fruition over the years.

| write to you in hopes that once again, you might listen to the wishes of your residents. Climate change is more than
just an issue - it is an inevitable reality that | and all San Mateans have to wrangle with. The effects are already present.
We are simply trying to do our best to mitigate them and hopefully, one day, eliminate entirely. Electrification is an
important step in this process that only the City of San Mateo can take - one that is not just a move of foresight, but one
of necessity. This is my future, and hundreds of other students’, and thousands of residents’. | urge you to protect it.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to the public welfare.

Kelly Chan

193 of 332


--- page 194 ---
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

(OM \d0d Sn
Wednesday, September 13, 2023 8:50 AM

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

As a long time electric utility planner and environmental engineer, | appreciate your leadership
in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release of the draft study for review.

San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households

by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

194 of 332


--- page 195 ---
Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Tom Kabat

195 of 332


--- page 196 ---
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Michael Closson

Wednesday, September 13, 2023 8:53 AM

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release

of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households

by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

196 of 332


--- page 197 ---
Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Michael Closson

197 of 332


--- page 198 ---
Frum, Jdlits FIYUIC es
Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 8:56 AM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: decarbonize San Mateo

Dear Sustainability and Infrastructure Commissioners,

Thank you for beginning to get the ball rolling on decarbonization in San Mateo. As the many fires, floods, and deadly
heat waves this past year have shown, the time when any person of conscience could treat this as a back-burner issue is
long gone. Fortunately, energy technology has improved so greatly in the past decade that we don't have to make
sacrifices to eliminate most of our climate pollution. Electrification of buildings is a win-win-win: it makes our air cleaner
right now, it saves us money after a couple years (and from then on out), and it lets us cut out a huge part of our climate
emissions. It's such an obviously good thing for our community and for the future that we should be going full speed to
do it even if there weren't massive federal subsidies to make it even more beneficial to San Mateo residents.

| hope you will also consider measures that put renters who wish to decarbonize their buildings and transport in a
stronger position, so that clean air is not a luxury for the affluent.

Change is coming, whether we like it or not. In one direction, there are fires, heat waves, and floods. In the other,
there's a clean, prosperous, technologically advanced world. | think it's clear which path we should take,

--James Higbie, San Mateo Resident

198 of 332


--- page 199 ---
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Ruedi Brunner

Wednesday, September 13, 2023 8:59 AM

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release
of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents' lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households
by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Efectrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

199 of 332


--- page 200 ---
Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter. costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Ruedi Brunner

Ruedi Brunner

200 of 332


--- page 201 ---
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Nancy Tierney

Wednesday, September 13, 2023 9:08 AM

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release
of the draft study for review. San Matea's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households

by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

201 of 332


--- page 202 ---
Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment ta public welfare.

Sincerely,

Nancy Tierney

202 of 332


--- page 203 ---
From: Kobert wnitenair

Sent: Wednesday, — §$<_
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Subject: Decarbonization Study

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission,

Thank you for your leadership in implementing the decarbonization objective for the City of San Mateo and for
releasing the draft study for review. San Mateo is one of just a handful of U.S. cities taking decarbonization as
seriously as the issue deserves. As agendized for tonight's meeting, please receive the report, and listen to the
many thoughtful voices you will hear.

As you know, we have completely electrified our home, taking advantage of available rebates, winning an
award from Peninsula Clean Energy. We have been helping many friends do the same.

Complete electrification is doable, affordable, and the one most direct action our family can take on behalf of
ending the climate crisis.

By taking a bold stand now, residents of San Mateo will be prepared for the ending of gas flow.

As senior residents of San Mateo, we are now prepared for the future. Switching to all-electric has reduced our
costs in the long run, because for the last 18 months we have had no gas or electric bill. We will also not have
to worry about equipment breaking down as we age.

Best wishes and may you continue your climate leadership.

Sincerely,

Robert and Teri Whitehair

203 of 332


--- page 204 ---
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Linda Hutchins-Knowles

Wednesday, September 13, 2023 9:18 AM

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

As a mother worried sick about the escalating climate crisis and runaway global heating, |
appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release
of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable

and vital to protect the health, lives, and livelihoods of current and future generations.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Children's health: A study by Mothers Out Front, Physicians for Social Responsibility, RMI,
and the Sierra Club found that children living in homes with gas stoves have a 42% increased
tisk of developing asthma. | encourage you to read this report and/or listen to this webinar:
https:/www.mothersoutfront.org/news/gas-stoves-health-and-air-quality-impacts-and-
solutions/ For the sake of children's health—and the health of all residents—the City of San
Mateo must do all it can to support the transition from health-damaging, climate-destaiblizing

gas to clean, renewable electricity.

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

204 of 332


--- page 205 ---
Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households

by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress,

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare. We parents are

counting on you to do the right thing for our children's health and the climate's stability.

Sincerely,

Linda Hutchins-Knowles

205 of 332


--- page 206 ---
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Karen Mek aT
Wednesday, September 13, 2023 9:26 AM
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release

of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households

by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

206 of 332


--- page 207 ---
Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Karen Maki

207 of 332


--- page 208 ---
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Glenn Stenstrom ara ReTocprer mmm

Wednesday, September 13, 2023 9:26 AM

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release
of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents' lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households
by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

208 of 332


--- page 209 ---
Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Glenn Stenstrom

209 of 332


--- page 210 ---
Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 9:33 AM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Cc: Ralph Garcia, Jr,
Subject: Banning Gas Appliances NO

Dear Sustainability Commission,

We are absolutely against this. We love our gas appliances. We especially love our range and the ability to regulate heat
while cooking. When we had no power for days last winter we could still cook. There are too many regulations.
Appliances account for a very small percentage of emissions. Focus on the big things like getting people out of their cars.
Thoughtfully,

Jean and Ralph Garcia

Sent from my iPhone

210 of 332


--- page 211 ---
From: Marty 2)

Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 39:50 AM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Subject: | am in support of San Mateo's efforts to decarbonize - please keep reach codes

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release of the draft study for
review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for health and financial reasons
as outlined below:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality Management District recently
passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen
oxide and particulate matter. The staff report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a
year. Note, this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health tmpacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming climate with adverse effects on
residents' lives, from extreme heat to more destructive wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of

death. Climate change multiplies these threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our environment and frontline
communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households by an estimated $1,800
annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification affordable and accessible.
Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable every day, and new electric products reduce the need for
extensive rewiring. Peninsula Clean Energy is streamlining processes and developing a one-stop shop to assist
homeowners with electrification (whole-home and partial). Community groups are working with unions and contractors
to develop the electrification workforce.

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier, and less predictable future.
Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate
electrification in San Mateo, | urge you to continue facilitating our progress.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Marty Jordan

211 of 332


--- page 212 ---
From: Kelly Petersen

Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 9:59 AM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Cc: Kelly Petersen

Subject: City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release of the draft

study

for review. San Mateo'’s commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for health and financial
reasons:

e Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters and
HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff report
estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note, this is for
outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

e Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming climate with
adverse effects on residents' lives, from extreme heat to more destructive wildfires. Extreme heat is
the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these threats.

« Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our
environment and frontline communitie

e Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households by an
estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

« Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification
affordable and accessible

e Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce the
need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development support
electrification.

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier, and less
predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial considerations. With numerous
compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo, | urge you to continue facilitating our progress.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Kelly

Petersen - 25 year resident of San Mateo

212 of 332


--- page 213 ---
Darren Don

From:
Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 10:19 AM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Decarbonization

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release of the draft
study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for health and financial
reasons:

« Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters and
HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff report
estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note, this is for
outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

* Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming climate with
adverse effects on residents' lives, from extreme heat to more destructive wildfires. Extreme heat is
the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these threats.

+ Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our
environment and frontline communities.

+ Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households by an
estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

¢ Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification
affordable and accessible

¢ Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce the
need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development support
electrification.

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier, and less
predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial considerations. With numerous
compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo, | urge you to continue facilitating our progress.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Darren Don, San Mateo resident

213 of 332


--- page 214 ---
Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 10:20 AM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Support decarbonization through building electrification

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

Thank you for your leadership in implementing the decarbonization objective for the City of San Mateo and for
releasing the draft study for review. San Mateo is one of just a handful of U.S. cities taking decarbonization as
seriously as the issue deserves. Kudos to you. At this time, | would like to urge you to continue the forward
momentum on this process. We need to keep supporting decarbonization —through all means possible, but
specifically, by focusing on building electrification.

| support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the City’s structures for the following reasons:

1) The warming climate, which is directly related to emissions of natural gas/methane, will have damaging
effects on the lives and livelihoods of community members. We have seen that impacts include everything from
extreme heat (which is dangerous to children, the elderly, and the significant number of residents who lack air
conditioning), fiercer and wetter storms, and more frequent and more destructive wildfires. These are crises
that interact and overlap since climate change is a threat multiplier.

2) The methane gas we burn comes from dangerous practices such as hydraulic fracturing that pollute the
water and air and imperil frontline communities.

3) Burning methane in our homes here in San Mateo is an unsafe practice with many identified health risks, for
instance, from gas stoves.

4) Switching to electric will reduce costs in the long run (and far sooner when including incentives). Rewiring
America’s electrification guide estimates "Households will save on average $1,800 a year by going electric’. As
technologies begin to scale, the costs will drop further. NREL reported in a recent model / study that "Higher
levels of electrification with rapid advancements in the cost and performance of end-use electric technologies

can result in net energy system savings—up to $800 billion in the high electrification scenario."

5) Importantly, here in the Bay Area we are fortunate to have certain municipalities and CCAs in the vanguard
of electrification. For example, a wide variety of existing Peninsula Clean Energy rebates, newer tax credits
created by the Inflation Reduction Act, and other available funding makes electrification more affordable (as
the Rincon report indicates: “Whole home electrification could be less expensive for building owners in San
Mateo than replacing appliances with gas, once rebates are included").

6) Electrification is getting easier for residents, and will continue to do so. The grid is getting more reliable all
the time. New electric appliances/products have been coming onto the market that will strain the grid less, and
significantly minimize the necessity for rewiring work and service upgrades. PCE, the IRA, and the state are
creating streamline permit processes. PCE is developing a one-stop shop to assist homeowners with their
electrification retrofits. Local organizations are working with loca! unions and contractors to develop the
electrification workforce. This is no longer the same era that it was for the early “home electrifiers.”

Those who oppose decarbonization and want to choose business as usual are merely in denial that the future
is already getting hotter, more expensive, less predictable, and more deadly. Decarbonization is the better
choice both from a moral and financial standpoint. With so many common-sense reasons to accelerate
electrification in San Mateo, | am hopeful that you will continue to facilitate our progress on this issue.

1

214 of 332


--- page 215 ---
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to the public welfare.
Sincerely,

Mark Hoffberg
Retired physicist

215 of 332


--- page 216 ---
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Gerald Oborn

Wednesday, September 13, 2023 10:32 AM

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| live in the city of San Mateo so methane gas and your action on this issue will affect me. | am
72 years old and would like to live here and on this earth until | am 101 years old. Reducing
needless pollution will help me live longer. When we ask the oil companies to reduce their

methane leakage we consumers must do our part too.

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release

of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households

by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

216 of 332


--- page 217 ---
Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier.
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Gerald Oborn

217 of 332


--- page 218 ---
From: Caitlin Kaliski rr ERISA
Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 10:

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Youth advocate support for San Mateo's Decarbonization

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in my home city, the City of San Mateo’s decarbonization efforts and the release
of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for health and financial
reasons:

» Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters and
HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff report
estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note, this is for
outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

e Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming climate with
adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive wildfires. Extreme heat is
the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these threats.

» Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our
environment and frontline communitie

« Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households by an
estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

« Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification
affordable and accessible

+ Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce the
need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and loca! workforce development support
electrification.

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier, and less
predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial considerations. With numerous
compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo, | urge you to continue facilitating our progress.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

218 of 332


--- page 219 ---
Angela Evans
Wednesday, September 13, 2023 10:56 AM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Subject:

Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release

of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing So would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive

wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households

by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

219 of 332


--- page 220 ---
Denying the urgency of decarbanization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier.
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Angela Evans

220 of 332


--- page 221 ---
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Maney Pecan
Wednesday, September 13, 2023 11:00 AM
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release

of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households
by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

221 of 332


--- page 222 ---
Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Nancy Federspiel

222 of 332


--- page 223 ---
From: Kristie Eglsaer

Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 11:03 AM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Ce: Andrea Chow; Sue-Ellen Atkinson; Nicolette Chan

Subject: SIC comments - Decarbonization, BPAC & Climate Action, and #WeekWithoutDriving
Dear SIC,

City Staff have done an amazing job preparing these reports and have been working hard!
Please see my comments and questions ahead of the upcoming meeting:

- Support Decarbonizing Existing Buildings
- Ped/Bike Update & Climate Action Plan
- #WeekWithoutDriving

Support Decarbonizing Existing Buildings

Both | and my mother have experienced gas leaks at places we have rented in the city where we've had to call the
company to come out. And having a gas stove caused major health concerns for my mom to the point where she had to
move. Eliminating gas from buildings benefits human health and the environment.

Ped/Bike Update & Climate Action Plan

In the city’s CAP, the reductions to come from ped/bike and transit are very small. Most reductions related to
transportation are expected to come from TDM/TOD and clean fleet/EV. But even with all the reductions laid out in the
plan, the transportation sector will still be the highest GHG emissions in San Mateo. Does the city know what needs to
happen to bring the GHG emissions from transportation to zero? Why do ped/bike investments bring so little in GHG
reductions for the CAP?

https://www.cityofsanmateo.ore/2769/Climate-Action-Plan

#WeekWithoutDriving
This week San Mateo County is encouraging decision makers to try a #WeekWithoutDriving.

The goal of the #WeekWithoutDriving is for those who have the option to drive to understand the barriers and
challenges that non-drivers face, with the goal to create better communities for all — to experience it yourself — not
just walking, rolling or taking transit to eliminate a car trip, but for everything you do.

The Week Without Driving campaign is national this year (10/2-8), but San Mateo County’s week (9/10-16) is different
than the national dates due to the school district’s fall break.

https://americawalks.org/week-without-drivin

https://americawalks.org/campaigns/national-week-without-drivin

1

‘

223 of 332


--- page 224 ---
More than one third of the population do not drive. This includes people who can’t drive because of a disability,
kids, teens and younger generations, immigrants, people with suspended licenses and to avoid drinking and
driving, people who have aged out of driving, and many people with licenses who can’t afford to own a car, pay for
insurance, parking or gas.

httos://enwwg.org/blog/how-many-people-do-not-drive

httos://www.today.com/health/some-drunken-drivers-keep-returning-road-despite-repeat-offenses-t9526
https://www.washingtonpost.com/health/2022/04/24/aging-drivers
https://www.itdp.org/2019/05/23/high-cost-transportation-united-states

newshour/show/is-the-era-of-inexpensive-cars-over-why-auto-prices-are-on-the-rise-in-america

Thanks very much!

Best, Kristie

224 of 332


--- page 225 ---
From: Betncs Ch aa
Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 11:05 AM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: San Mateo's building decarbonization plan

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

We recently electrified our home and have been so happy with everything. It is so important that we all do all we can to
mitigate our environmental crisis. Once | learned of the aging gas infrastructure and that we had gas leaks in our walls it
was a no-brainer to transition. So, | appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the
release of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is important to the future of our
children and the planet.

In the process of electrifying our home, | came to understand that, since this is a new effort, many of the contractors
and tradespeople are trying to navigate unknown territory and sometimes are misinformed or ill-informed. The
estimates were all over the map and it is critical that the city gives clear and accurate information and directions to
people.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for health and financial reasons
as outlined below:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality Management District recently
passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen
oxide and particulate matter. The staff report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a
year, Note, this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Since we installed our mini-split system, and induction range, in our 1940's home, we have felt the quality of the air
improve immeasurably.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming climate with adverse effects on
residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of

death. Climate change multiplies these threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our environment and frontline
communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households by an estimated $1,800
annually, As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification affordable and accessible.
Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable every day, and new electric products reduce the need for
extensive rewiring. Peninsula Clean Energy is streamlining processes and developing a one-stop shop to assist
homeowners with electrification (whole-home and partial). Community groups are working with unions and contractors

to develop the electrification workforce.

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier, and less predictable future.

225 of 332


--- page 226 ---
Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate
electrification in San Mateo, | urge you to continue facilitating our progress,

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare. This is not an easy transition but a necessary
one for a stable future.

Sincerely,

226 of 332


--- page 227 ---
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Wednesday, September 13, :

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release

of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons.

Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households by an
estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification affordable and

accessible.

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.

This issue is of critical importance to me as a San Mateo resident. I'm counting on you to
make progress on protecting the environment in San Mateo so we Can secure a longer,

healthier future on this planet for ourselves and future generations.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to the wellbeing of your constituents.

Sincerely,

Emily Morris

227 of 332


--- page 228 ---
7
Devika Mehra

From:
Sent:
Wednesd
To: ay, Septemb
; Sistainabill er 13, 2023 11:
Subject: oh anonaice & Infrastructure com ma AM
ent take on the Sustainability caf
a

Dear sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
ers,

ul to the Commission for i
or its leadershi
Mateo and for releasi rship and foresight in i
jab sing the draft stud aig in implementi
decarbonization as seriously as the issue dese y for review. San Mateo is ing the decarbonization objecti
continue the forward momentum of this pr rves. Kudos to you. At this ti one of just a handful of U.S jective for the
= oc im ‘S. citi i
ble, but specifically, by focusing on scnaray Nee need to keep suoporting decarbe | would also like ‘ou taking
electrification ecarbonization ge you to
' —through all m
eans

jam gratef
city of San

possi

*
S 5.

1) The warming climate, which is di
(https: sh baler nanein he related to emissions of natural
: : ‘ e ; st ra
jvelihoods aan Mateans. We have snes ii era Aa Uaehoponasr wealibava ae
children, the elderly, and the significant numb i include everything re | have damaging effects on the li
citizensjo cant number of reside genom extrem Soo eM oeTeOr

urnal.us/california-has-hi nts who lack air conditioning) e heat (which is dangerous to

ir-conditioning/) fi
iercer and

(https:
r storms, and more frequent
and more j
destructive wildfires. (https://www.|
: w.latimes.com/cali
: california/sto
ry/2023-09-

04 climate-chan e-boosts-cali i
ifornia-wildfire-ri
5 ce a
5 that interact and overlap si re-risk-by-25) These are not cri
nce climate change is a th ot crises that San Matea
reat multiplier ns want, nord
. 1 eserve. These

are crise

2) The methane gas we burn c
e omes from
(httos: «ww science.ore/doi/abs/1 dangerous practices such
(https: bs. nie opafen aaah aaa science.1235009) and as hydraulic fracturing that pol
: articlelandin air pollute the
3) Burning a 2014/em/c4em00081a/unauth) and _
urning methane in our homes here i and imperil frontli
from gas Stoves. ere in San Mateo is an unsafe practi mine communes
ice with many i eg:
y identified he ;
alth risks, for i
_ for instance,

4) switching to electric will red
ngs ; . uce costs in

electrification guide estimates eo long run (and far sooner when i

to scale, the costs will drop further. NREL re will save on average $1,800 a en including incentives). Rewiri

. . . fe} * , e : * ir 1 '

rapid advancements in the cost and nerforma rted in a recent ode fst “ BY going electric". As vacliacl America s
nce of end-use electric technolo Higher levels of electrification v le

gies can result i ion with
ystem

enplores-how-the-supply-side-of-the-us-power-system-could-evolve, htm
ex lores-how-the-su ly-sid
e-of-the-us-pow
er-
system-could-evolve.html) in the high
igh electrificatio
n scenario."

portantly, here in the Ba
. y Area we are f
ration. For example, a wide vari ortunate to have certain munici
apeninsulacleaneaereys iety of existing Peninsula Clea munieipane and CCAs in the
Act, (https: cleantechnica .com/residential-pr n Energy rebates vanguard of
' .com/2023/04/03 ograms/) newer t
si en makes electrification more nomestectfation-ncent eth created by the Inflation Red
as the n report indicates: “W ordable -in-the-inflati eduction
, ‘ : “Whole +e: ron-ceduction-
placing spalancesrwithygs home electrification could encgeilj ond other
gas, once rebates are included") be less expensive for build
my uilding owners i
in San Mateo

5) im

electrifi

(https://ww
s!

than re

ho oppose decarboni
onization and
tting hotter, more e ; na wantto ¢
8 xpensive, less predictable aioe business as usual are merely i
, and more deadly. | iH in dept
. [choose not ARab thet utune}
to let that sc ure is alread
enario play out y

Those W
ge

1

228 of 332


--- page 229 ---
Decarbonization is the better choice both from a moral and financial standpoint. With so many common-sense reasons
to accelerate electrification in San Mateo, | am hopeful that you will continue to facilitate our progress on this issue.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to the public welfare.
Devika Mehra

12th Grade
Aragon High School

229 of 332


--- page 230 ---
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Chris ibe
Wednesday, September 73, 2023 11:31 AM

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release

of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households

by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

230 of 332


--- page 231 ---
Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Chris Gilbert

231 of 332


--- page 232 ---
From: Robert Zhou

Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 11:59 AM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Robert Zhou supports San Mateo's building decarbonization plan

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

My name is Robert Zhou, and | am a resident of San Mateo. As a 24-year-old young adult who suffers from eco-anxiety
and other mental health issues because of uncertainty caused by the ongoing environmental crisis, | appreciate your
leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release of the draft study for review. San Mateo's
commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for health and financial reasons
as outlined below:

¢ Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality Management District
recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters and HVAC systems due to the health
effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives
and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note, this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

* Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming climate with adverse
effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather
cause of death. Climate change multiplies these threats.

* Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our environment and
frontline communities.

* Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households by an estimated
$1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

* Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification affordable and
accessible.

* Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable every day, and new electric products reduce the
need for extensive rewiring. Peninsula Clean Energy is streamlining processes and developing a one-stop shop to
assist homeowners with electrification (whole-home and partial). Community groups are working with unions
and contractors to develop the electrification workforce,

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier, and less predictable future.
Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate
electrification in San Mateo, | urge you to continue facilitating our progress.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Robert
he/him/his

232 of 332


--- page 233 ---
From: Aran O'Sullivan a ER FEISTY
Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 12:16 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Pro Green Reach Codes!
Hello,

Thank you for your progress on green reach codes this past year. It is imperative we act quickly and aggressively to fight
climate change, and as such | strongly support any environmental action taken by the city. Electrification in particular is a
highly effective and achievable way to stem unnecessary emissions.

As a young person, my entire life thus far has been affected by climate change, and if we don't act now, my entire future
will be too. I've been kept out of school and forced to remain indoors as a result of violent heat waves, unpredictable
rain storms, and, of course, wildfires. | want to ensure that these issues do not become exacerbated in years to come,
and that the generation that follows mine will not be dealt an even worse hand than ours.

| urge you to protect these reach codes and the futures of San Mateans.
Thank you,

Aran O'Sullivan
San Mateo City Resident

233 of 332


--- page 234 ---
From: Michelle Mandel

Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 12:34 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Decarbonization Efforts

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release of the draft

study

for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for health and financial
reasons:

« Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters and
HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff report
estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note, this is for
outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

»* Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming climate with
adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive wildfires. Extreme heat is
the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these threats.

* Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our
environment and frontline communitie

¢ Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households by an
estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

¢ Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification
affordable and accessible

¢ Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce the
need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development support
electrification,

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier, and less
predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial considerations. With numerous
compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo, | urge you to continue facilitating our progress.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Michelle Mandel (San Mateo Resident)

234 of 332


--- page 235 ---
Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 12:47 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release
of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households
by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Efectrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

235 of 332


--- page 236 ---
Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Mohan Gurunathan

236 of 332


--- page 237 ---
From: Michelle 0)
Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 1:08 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Support for San Mateo Building Decarbonization

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| am a longtime resident of San Mateo, and a mother of two who is deeply concerned about the climate crisis,
and its ever-worsening impacts on the health, safety and economic vitality of our wonderful San Mateo
community.

| am grateful for the City's leadership in implementing its important decarbonization objectives and for releasing
the draft study of building decarbonization for review. At this time, | would like to urge you to continue the
forward momentum on this process. We need to keep supporting decarbonization —through all means
possible, but specifically, by focusing on building electrification.

| support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the City’s structures for the following reasons:

1) Climate: The warming climate, which is directly related to emissions of natural gas/methane, will have
damaging effects on the lives and livelihoods of community members. We have seen that impacts include
everything from extreme heat (which is dangerous to children, the elderly, and the significant number of
residents who lack air conditioning), fiercer and wetter storms, and more frequent and more destructive
wildfires. These are crises that interact and overlap since climate change is a threat multiplier.

2) Environmental: The methane gas we burn comes from dangerous practices such as hydraulic fracturing
that pollute the water and air and imperil frontline communities.

3) Health & Safety: Burning methane in our homes here in San Mateo is an unsafe practice with many
identified health risks, for instance, from gas stoves. These negative impacts are especially harmful to
children.

4) Cost Savings: Switching to electric will reduce costs in the long run (and far sooner when including
incentives). Rewiring America's electrification guide estimates "Households will save on average $1,800 a year
by going electric". As technologies begin to scale, the costs will drop further. NREL reported in a recent model /
study that "Higher levels of electrification with rapid advancements in the cost and performance of end-use
electric technologies can result in net energy system savings—up to $800 billion in the high electrification

scenario." Moreover, a wide variety of existing Peninsula Clean Energy rebates, newer tax credits created by
the Inflation Reduction Act, and other available funding makes electrification more affordable (as the Rincon

report indicates: “Whole home electrification could be less expensive for building owners in San Mateo than
replacing appliances with gas, once rebates are included").

6) Ease of Transition: Electrification is getting easier for residents, and will continue to do so. The grid is
getting more reliable all the time. New electric appliances/products have been coming onto the market that will
strain the grid less, and significantly minimize the necessity for rewiring work and service upgrades. PCE, the
IRA, and the state are creating streamline permit processes. PCE is developing a one-stop shop to assist
homeowners with their electrification retrofits. Local organizations are working with local unions and
contractors to develop the electrification workforce. This is no longer the same era that it was for the early
“home electrifiers.” This forward momentum will only continue.

237 of 332


--- page 238 ---
Those who oppose decarbonization and want to choose business as usual are merely in denial that the future
is already getting hotter, more expensive, less predictable, and more deadly. Furthermore, the City has hired a
very capable consultant, Rincon, to thoroughly analyze all issues, considerations, opportunities, etc. with
respect to the City’s decarbonization planning. The report being presented to the Commission tonight has set
forth a thoughtful timeframe for this process, which includes planned community outreach. | respectfully
request that the Commissioners trust and follow this process, and ask questions and provide input on
what is presented to the SIC on the consultant’s timeline, rather than revisiting opponents’ objections on
topics that are out of step with the consultant’s timeline and appear to be aimed at fear mongering.

Decarbonization is the better choice both from a moral and financial standpoint. With so many common-sense
reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo, | am hopeful that you will continue to facilitate our progress
on this issue. | look forward to participating in the community engagement process for the City's
decarbonization planning as it unfolds.

Thank you,
Michelle Hudson
ee

San Mateo

238 of 332


--- page 239 ---
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

erie 0
Wednesday, September 13, 2023 1:15 PM

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release
of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter, The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households
by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

239 of 332


--- page 240 ---
Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Valerie Dubois

240 of 332


--- page 241 ---
From: Julie oe
Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 1:30 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Cc: Robert Gould; Jeffrey Mann; robertwhitehair2@gmail.com

Subject: For 9/13/23 Commission Meeting: Comments re: Establish policies to decarbonize and
electrify existing buildings and eliminate natural gas use by 2030

Attachments: 091323 San Mateo Electrify.pdf

For 9/13 Commission Meeting: Comments re: Establish policies to decarbonize and electrify existing buildings and
eliminate natural gas use by 2030

Sent on behalf of San Francisco Bay Physicians for Social Responsibility
Please see below and attached.

September 11, 2023
Dear San Mateo Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission,

| represent San Francisco Bay Physicians for Social Responsibility (SF Bay PSR), a group of thousands of health
professionals and advocates in the Bay Area who seek to protect the health of our patients and communities
who are threatened by the climate emergency that is destroying our life support system. SF Bay PSR seeks to
rapidly advance policies and regulations in support of an equitable transition to all electric buildings. Switching
from fossil-fuel appliances to all electric appliances will help protect health and the planet.

| write to urge you to adopt the building electrification and decarbonizing strategy outlined in the report by
Rincon Consultants at your September 13 Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission meeting. It is essential
that the city consider all reasonable measures to prevent new uses of gas and facilitate the necessary transition
from fossil gas to address the air quality, health, and safety impacts of current fossil gas use in our homes and
other buildings. The framework provided by the report authors, Rincon Consultants, will provide a clear path for
every San Mateo homeowner, landlord, and commercial property owner to take the one most direct,
immediate step to stop the march of the climate crisis: Electrify Everything!

A rapid transition away from fossil fuel use is also critical to avoid the very worst and irreversible impacts of
climate change. Preventing the continued use of fossil fuels, including “natural gas” (which is primarily
methane, a gas that has 80 times the warming power of carbon dioxide), creates more affordable, cleaner,
healthier, and more resilient housing and buildings for communities.

While the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report revealed that sadly, a 1.5°C rise in
planetary temperature is now unavoidable, the potential to limit warming to below 2°C—and avoid even more
catastrophic climate impacts—is still possible if the world can achieve net-zero carbon emissions by

2050.{i] That means we need to begin phasing out fossil fuels right away, including methane gas used to heat
and cook with.

1.Building electrification is a key strategy for addressing our climate emergency

241 of 332


--- page 242 ---
@ Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from California’s building sector account for more than a quarter of the
state’s total emissions. Direct emissions from building fossil fuel use account for 10— 15% of the total. These
emissions result primarily from both the combustion of gas in buildings for cooking, heating, and water heating
as well as from methane leaks throughout the gas distribution system.” (UCLA 2019 page 3).

e Building electrification (BE), defined as “replacing gas with efficient electric appliances in existing buildings
and constructing new building as all-electric” is the primary approach to building decarbonization.

@ Phasing out gas use provides many benefits to community health, safety, and a stable climate future.
Extending these benefits to existing homes and buildings is now urgently needed.

2.Building electrification prevents toxic exposures to air pollution from gas stoves and gas appliances. These are
some of the health effects of exposure to natural gas.

e California has the highest percentage of gas stove use in the country. 88% of all CA households (11.5 million in
total) having natural gas service in 2020; typically, 70% of these households cook with a natural gas stove or
oven,

e Natural gas throughout California contains numerous hazardous air pollutants that are linked to cancer,
asthma, and the formation of smog.

@ Scientists documented that even when gas stoves are off they can leak benzene (a known carcinogen) in
concentrations such that indoor air concentrations are on a par with secondhand smoke.

e Homes with gas stoves can emit nitrogen dioxide concentrations that are 50-400% higher than homes with
electric stoves. Nitrogen dioxide causes direct damage to people’s lungs and is one of the primary causes of
smog.

@ Children in homes with gas stoves have a 42% increased risk of experiencing asthma symptoms, a 24%
increased risk of ever being diagnosed with asthma by a doctor, and an overall 32% increased risk of both
current and lifetime asthma.

e Chronic exposure to elevated fine particulate matter (also known as PM2.5) has the potential to damage
human respiratory systems, the cardiovascular system, is harmful to pregnant women, and is one of the leading

causes of premature death throughout the world.

@ Improperly vented gas appliances lead to carbon monoxide poisoning that result in thousands of emergency
room visits and several hundred deaths every year

3. Pollution from gas stoves disproportionately harms children in communities of color

e African-American and Hispanic children with asthma are likely the most disproportionately burdened by
indoor air pollution from gas stoves.

e Poor people without adequate heating will often use gas stoves to heat their home which contributes to
indoor air pollution.

@ Lower-income and communities of color are three times more likely to live in an area with poor outdoor air

quality, which compounds indoor air pollution health harms.
2

242 of 332


--- page 243 ---
4.Other benefits of building electrification

e Electrifying our building stock produces a new demand for skilled workers. A 2019 UCLA study documented
(p. ES-4) that building electrification in California could support an average of 64,200-104, 100 jobs annually,
after accounting for losses in the gas industry. The greatest increases in employment would be building retrofits
and renewable energy construction, while the greatest decreases would be in gas distribution followed by
labor-saving all-electric new construction. However, the negative labor impacts are much smaller than the
positive impacts.

e All-Electric homes and buildings are more efficient. According to the California Energy Commission, a modern
high-efficiency heat pump electric water heater (available at all major retailers) costs roughly one-third less on
utility bills to operate than the most efficient gas water heater. in addition, electric heat pump heating also
provides air-conditioning, resulting in less equipment, reduced maintenance costs, and greater climate
resilience.

e Public Safety: Methane gas is highly flammable. In the past 10 years, 9,000 gas explosions in the U.S have
killed more than 500 people, and gas leaks have displaced and sickened thousands of people [iii] Methane gas
also caused half the fires after two major California earthquakes [ii]

e Climate: All-electric buildings are a practical step forward to address the climate crisis, by breaking the cycle
of fossil fuel dependency in buildings. This is the single biggest step that cities can take to address climate.

e Resilience: Switching from gas to electric at the time of remodel or replacement helps avoid a complex, costly
and likely inevitable switch to all-electric heating and appliances in the future, since gas prices are expected to
rise sharply, and California is planning to eventually end gas distribution. The California Public Utilities
Commission estimates that natural gas rates will increase at twice the rate of electricity through the next 10
years.|iv]

Thank you for considering our comments. We would be pleased to provide additional information or respond to
any questions that might arise.

Jeffrey A. Mann, M.D.

Lafayette, California

San Francisco Bay Physicians for Social Responsibility
https://www.sfbaypsr.org/

UCLA Study: https://ucla.app.box.com/s/xyzt8jclixnetivO269ge704wuOihif7

(i) NYTimes:https://www.nytimes.com/2021/08/09/climate/climate-change-report-ipcc-
un.html?te=1&nl=climate- fwd:&emc=edit_clim_20210812

(ii) Joseph, George. “30 Years of Oil and Gas Pipeline Accidents, Mapped.” Citylab, November 30, 2016

Sellers, F., Weintraub, K. and Wootson, C. (2018). “Thousands of residents still out of their homes after gas
explosions trigger deadly chaos in

Massachusetts.” WashingtonPost. https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/thousands-of-residents-still-out-
of-their-homes- after-gas-explosions-trigger-deadly-chaos-in-massachusetts/2018/09/14/802ff690-b830-11e2-
I4eb- 3bd52dfe917b_story.htm|

243 of 332


--- page 244 ---
(iii) Los Angeles in 1994 and San Francisco in 1989, according to the California Seismic Safety Commission.
(2002). “Improving Natural Gas Safety in Earthquakes.” SSC-02-03

Taylor, Ann. “The Northridge Earthquake: 20 Years Ago Today.” The Atlantic. January 17, 2014.

(iv) “California’s Gas System in Transition | Equitable, Affordable, Decarbonized and Smaller.” Gridworks,
September 29, 2019.https://gridworks.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/09/GW_Calif-Gas-System-report-1.pdf.

CPUC Rate Analysis: https://www.cpuc.ca.gov/-/media/cpuc-website/divisions/energy-division/documents/en-
banc/feb-2021-utility-costs-and-affordability-of-the-grid-of-the-future.pdf

SF Bay Physicians for Social Responsibility.org

Director of Communications and Health Professional Engagement

244 of 332


--- page 245 ---
PHYSICIANS FoR
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

SAN FRANCISCO BAY CHAPTER

PSR

September 11, 2023
Dear San Mateo Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission,

| represent San Francisco Bay Physicians for Social Responsibility (SF Bay PSR), a group of thousands of

health professionals and advocates in the Bay Area who seek to protect the health of our patients and

communities who are threatened by the climate emergency that is destroying our life support system.

SF Bay PSR seeks to rapidly advance policies and regulations in support of an equitable transition to all

electric buildings. Switching from fossil-fuel appliances to all electric appliances will help protect health
and the planet.

| write to urge you to adopt the building electrification and decarbonizing strategy outlined in the report
by Rincon Consultants at your September 13 Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission meeting. It is
essential that the city consider all reasonable measures to prevent new uses of gas and facilitate the
necessary transition from fossil gas to address the air quality, health, and safety impacts of current fossil
gas use in our homes and other buildings. The framework provided by the report authors, Rincon
Consultants, will provide a clear path for every San Mateo homeowner, landlord, and commercial
property owner to take the one most direct, immediate step to stop the march of the climate crisis:
Electrify Everything!

A rapid transition away from fossil fuel use is also critical to avoid the very worst and irreversible impacts
of climate change. Preventing the continued use of fossil fuels, including “natural gas” (which is primarily
methane, a gas that has 80 times the warming power of carbon dioxide), creates more affordable,
cleaner, healthier, and more resilient housing and buildings for communities.

While the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report revealed that sadly, a 1.5°C rise in
planetary temperature is now unavoidable, the potential to limit warming to below 2°C—and avoid even
more catastrophic climate impacts—is still possible if the world can achieve net-zero carbon emissions
by 2050 liJThat means we need to begin phasing out fossil fuels right away, including methane gas used
to heat and cook with.

1.Building electrification is a key strategy for addressing our climate emergency

e Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from California’s building sector account for more than a quarter of
the state’s total emissions. Direct emissions from building fossil fuel use account for 10- 15% of the
total. These emissions result primarily from both the combustion of gas in buildings for cooking, heating,
and water heating as well as from methane leaks throughout the gas distribution system.” (UCLA 2019

page 3).

@ Building electrification (BE), defined as “replacing gas with efficient electric appliances in existing
buildings and constructing new building as all-electric” is the primary approach to building
decarbonization.

245 of 332


--- page 246 ---
@ Phasing out gas use provides many benefits to community health, safety, and a stable climate future.
Extending these benefits to existing homes and buildings is now urgently needed.

2.Building electrification prevents toxic exposures to air pollution from gas stoves and
gas appliances. These are some of the health effects of exposure to natural gas.

e California has the highest percentage of gas stove use in the country. 88% of all CA households (11.5
million in total) having natural gas service in 2020; typically, 70% of these households cook witha
natural gas stove or oven,

e Natural gas throughout California contains numerous hazardous air pollutants that are linked to
cancer, asthma, and the formation of smog.

e Scientists documented that even when gas stoves are off they can leak benzene (a known
carcinogen) in concentrations such that indoor air concentrations are on a par with secondhand smoke.

e Homes with gas stoves can emit nitrogen dioxide concentrations that are 50-400% higher than homes
with electric stoves. Nitrogen dioxide causes direct damage to people’s lungs and is one of the primary
causes of smog.

e Children in homes with gas stoves have a 42% increased risk of experiencing asthma symptoms, a 24%
increased risk of ever being diagnosed with asthma by a doctor, and an overall 32% increased risk of
both current and lifetime asthma.

@ Chronic exposure to elevated fine particulate matter (also known as PM2.5) has the potential to
damage human respiratory systems, the cardiovascular system, is harmful to pregnant women, and is

one of the leading causes of premature death throughout the world.

® Improperly vented gas appliances lead to carbon monoxide poisoning that result in thousands of
emergency room visits and several hundred deaths every year

3. Pollution from gas stoves disproportionately harms children in communities of color

e African-American and Hispanic children with asthma are likely the most disproportionately burdened
by indoor air pollution from gas stoves.

® Poor people without adequate heating will often use gas stoves to heat their home which contributes
to indoor air pollution.

e Lower-income and communities of color are three times more likely to live in an area with poor
outdoor air quality, which compounds indoor air pollution health harms.

4.Other benefits of building electrification
@ Electrifying our building stock produces a new demand for skilled workers. A 2019 UCLA
study documented (p. ES-4) that building electrification in California could support an average of

64,200-104,100 jobs annually, after accounting for losses in the gas industry. The greatest increases in
employment would be building retrofits and renewable energy construction, while the greatest

246 of 332


--- page 247 ---
decreases would be in gas distribution followed by labor-saving all-electric new construction. However,
the negative labor impacts are much smaller than the positive impacts.

e All-Electric homes and buildings are more efficient. According to the California Energy Commission,
a modern high-efficiency heat pump electric water heater (available at all major retailers) costs roughly
one-third less on utility bills to operate than the most efficient gas water heater. In addition, electric
heat pump heating also provides air-conditioning, resulting in less equipment, reduced maintenance
costs, and greater climate resilience.

e Public Safety: Methane gas is highly flammable. In the past 10 years, 9,000 gas explosions in the U.S
have killed more than 500 people, and gas leaks have displaced and sickened thousands of

people. [iii] Methane gas also caused half the fires after two major California earthquakes. lii]

@ Climate: All-electric buildings are a practical step forward to address the climate crisis, by breaking the
cycle of fossil fuel dependency in buildings. This is the single biggest step that cities can take to address
climate.

e Resilience: Switching from gas to electric at the time of remodel or replacement helps avoid a
complex, costly and likely inevitable switch to all-electric heating and appliances in the future, since gas
prices are expected to rise sharply, and California is planning to eventually end gas distribution. The
California Public Utilities Commission estimates that natural gas rates will increase at twice the rate of

electricity through the next 10 years. |'V]

Thank you for considering our comments. We would be pleased to provide additional information or
respond to any questions that might arise.

Jeffrey A. Mann, M.D.

Lafayette, California

San Francisco Bay Physicians for Social Responsibility
https://www.sfbaypsr.org/

UCLA Study: https://ucla.app.box.com/s/xyzt8jclixnetivO269qe 704wuDihif7

(i) NYTimes:https://www.nytimes.com/2021/08/09/climate/climate-change-report-ipcc-
un. html ?te=1&nl=climate- fwd:&emc=edit_clim_20210812

(ii) Joseph, George. “30 Years of Oil and Gas Pipeline Accidents, Mapped.” Citylab. November 30, 2016
Sellers, F., Weintraub, K. and Wootson, C. (2018). “Thousands of residents still out of their homes after
gas explosions trigger deadly chaos in

Massachusetts.” WashingtonPost. https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/thousands-cl-residents
still-out-of-their-homes- after-gas-explosions-trigger-deadly-chaos-in-

massachusetts/2018/09/14/802ff690-b830-11e8-94eb- 3bd52dfe917b_story. html

(iii) Los Angeles in 1994 and San Francisco in 1989, according to the California Seismic Safety
Commission. (2002). “Improving Natural Gas Safety in Earthquakes.” SSC-02-03

Taylor, Ann. “The Northridge Earthquake: 20 Years Ago Today.” The Atlantic. January 17, 2014.

247 of 332


--- page 248 ---
(iv) “California’s Gas System in Transition | Equitable, Affordable, Decarbonized and Smaller.” Gridworks,
September 29, 2019.https://gridworks.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/09/GW_Calif-Gas-System-report-
1.pdf.

CPUC Rate Analysis: https://www.cpuc ca.gov/-/media/cpuc-website/divisions/energy
division/documents/en- banc/feb-2021-utility-costs-and-affordability-of-the-grid-of the future pdi

Physicians for Social Responsibility, San Francisco Bay Chapter
548 Market Street, #90725, San Francisco, CA 94104-5401

248 of 332


--- page 249 ---
From: Guillermo Cockrum

Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 1:40 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: City Building De-Carbonization

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release of the draft
study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for health and financial
reasons:

» Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters and
HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff report
estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note, this is for
outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

+» Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming climate with
adverse effects on residents' lives, from extreme heat to more destructive wildfires. Extreme heat is
the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these threats.

» Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our
environment and frontline communitie

« Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households by an
estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

+ Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification
affordable and accessible

e Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce the
need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development support
electrification.

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier, and less
predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial considerations. With numerous
compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo, | urge you to continue facilitating our progress.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

All the best,

Guillermo Cockrum

249 of 332


--- page 250 ---
From: Laura i rr TEEPE TEST
Sent: Wednesday, September 13, :

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Decarbonization

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release of the draft study for
review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for health and financial reasons
as outlined below:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality Management District recently
passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen
oxide and particulate matter. The staff report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a
year. Note, this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming climate with adverse effects on
residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive wildfires, Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of

death. Climate change multiplies these threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our environment and frontline
communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households by an estimated $1,800
annually, As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification affordable and accessible.
Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable every day, and new electric products reduce the need for
extensive rewiring. Peninsula Clean Energy is streamlining processes and developing a one-stop shop to assist
homeowners with electrification (whole-home and partial). Community groups are working with unions and contractors
to develop the electrification workforce.

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier, and less predictable future.
Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate
electrification in San Mateo, | urge you to continue facilitating our progress.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Laura Brash

250 of 332


--- page 251 ---
From: Mollie Carter

Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 1:48 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Public comment on Decarbonization Report and Sustainable Building Strategy

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| want to thank you for the leadership you have shown and the action you've taken in implementing the
decarbonization objective for the City of San Mateo and for releasing the draft study for review. | also want to
urge you to continue moving forward on this process. Decarbonization is a no-brainer. If we are to
prevent even more severe weather events that are already putting the people of San Mateo at risk, we need
to keep supporting decarbonization —through all means possible, but specifically, by focusing on building
electrification and implementing reach codes this year. It is one of the most important things we can do.

| strongly support aggressive city action to eliminate fossil fuel appliances from our city structures:

1) If we don't act, we will see even more extreme heat, bigger and wetter storms, and more destructive
wildfires - and it is our most vulnerable populations who are at most risk.

2) Burning methane gas is toxic for our environment, unsafe in our homes and buildings, and we do not need
it, we have an affordable alternative.

3) It's affordable and this is the time to switch to electric - everywhere. Given the technology (which will
continue to get better when policies like the reach codes are put in place), and the local and federal
incentives, electrification is affordable on a personal and system level. According to an NREL report, it can
"result in net energy system savings—up to $800 billion in the high electrification scenario.”

| hope that with so many common-sense reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo, you will continue to
move forward on this process.

Thank you for your dedicated service.
Kind regards,

Mollie Carter
San Mateo resident for 21 years

251 of 332


--- page 252 ---
trom:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Rebecca Wysong

Wednesday, 5p
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release
of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates that doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks yearly.

Note, this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents' lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households
by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

252 of 332


--- page 253 ---
Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,
Rebecca Wysong

Rebecca Wysong

253 of 332


--- page 254 ---
rrvitt. PV ON rete aneie

Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 1:51 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release

of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents' lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households

by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

254 of 332


--- page 255 ---
Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Nabeei Al-Shamma

255 of 332


--- page 256 ---
From: David Moller ae

Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 2:03 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| strongly support the City of San Mateo’s efforts to decarbonize its existing building stock.
This is a transition we can and must make to help address human-caused climate change. We

have the technology and resources to do this! We only need the will.
Thank you for your leadership!

David Moller

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

David Moller

256 of 332


--- page 257 ---
From: Anjuli Mishra

Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 2:03 PM
To: Sustainability & infrastructure Commission
Subject: Comment on Decarbonization

Dear Sustainability and Infrastructure Commissioners,

My name is Anjuli Mishra, | am 16 years old and a highschool student in San Mateo. | appreciate your
leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release of the draft study for review. San
Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| thank San Mateo for being one of the only cities in the country to be taking the necessary steps to address
the climate crisis by beginning the decarbonization process, but we have to keep this momentum going and
you have to stick to the commitments that the city has made to their constituents.

Some community members have raised concerns about the costs of electrification. The reality is that they have
come down substantially. Furthermore, as technologies begin to scale and markets grow, costs will continue
to come down and electrification will be cheaper in the long term, especially when we factor in the savings from
improvements to the climate and community health. We must be willing to be a pioneer and make that choice
to be uncomfortable with “pioneer status” in the short term to actually be able to live in the long term.

San Mateo is in a unique position to be that pioneer because of the resources the city has for PCE rebates,
IRA tax credits, and the social infrastructure to educate people about the process of electrification and how to
make it as easy as possible. Even the consultants from the city conceded that electrification is less expensive
when considering rebates.

The urgency of the climate crisis can not be overstated. Please listen to the youth. Our future is in your hands.

Anjuli Mishra

257 of 332


--- page 258 ---
FrOMms DATS SSE
Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 2:04 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Electrification

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release of the draft
study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for health and financial
reasons:

» Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters and
HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff report
estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note, this is for
outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

« Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming climate with
adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive wildfires. Extreme heat is
the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these threats.

« Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our
environment and frontline communitie

» Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households by an
estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

e Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification
affordable and accessible

» Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce the
need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development support
electrification.

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier, and less
predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial considerations. With numerous
compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo, | urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Mike Swire

258 of 332


--- page 259 ---
From: Nancy Shee
Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 2:11 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Subject: Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Building Strategy

Dear Sustainability and Infrastructure Commissioners:

Thank you and City staff for releasing the draft study in response to the City Council's approved objective for
FY 23-24: “Establish policies to decarbonize and electrify existing buildings and eliminate natural gas use by
2030.”

| would also like to urge you to continue the forward momentum on this process. We need to keep supporting
decarbonization —through all means possible, but specifically, by focusing on building electrification.

Building electrification is one of the most important responses to the climate crisis. The framework provided by
the report authors, Rincon Consultants, will provide a clear path for every San Mateo homeowner, landlord,
and commercial property owner to take the one most direct, immediate step to stop the march of the climate
crisis: Electrify Everything! Stop burning fossil fuels including methane gas.

According to Electrify Now (https://electrifynow.net/), every home that is electrified eliminates 9 -19 tons of
global warming carbon dioxide emissions, every single year. That is on top of the 4 tons of CO2 emissions per
year per home that are saved by signing on to Peninsula Clean Energy.

Regarding cost of electrification, Rincon Consultants notes on page 18 in the report, that: “Whole home
electrification could be less expensive for owners in San Mateo than replacing appliances with gas
once rebates are included.”

| strongly urge the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission to continue to support and promote the City
Council objective to decarbonize buildings and end the use of gas in San Mateo.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to our city.

Nancy Schneider

Nancy Schneider

259 of 332


--- page 260 ---
From:

Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 2:19 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission; City Council (San Mateo)
Subject: San Mateo - Appliance Conversion from Gas to Electric (Electrify San Mateo)

Dear Commission and Council Members.

I am unable to join the meeting in person tonight. I'm concerned that an unpublicized
recommendation will be made to move some of the mandates forward to 2025, from
2030 and want to ask you to consider declining the fast-track Appliance Conversion from
Gas to Electric initiative, should it come up.

Keep in mind that a conversion such as this is costly for all of us, not just the cost of a
new appliance. Consider that within our home, to convert from gas to electric could
mean bearing the additional cost of running new electrical wiring, possibly requiring
upgraded and/or new electrical panels, potentially modifying existing locations for
appliances to fit, etc. Should all this be done within this accelerated program to 2025
from 2030, are resources available to accommodate the demand (ie: materials, general
contractors & electricans). Have you verified that PG&E even has increased their
capacity availability (some think there would be an inability for PGE to provide the
electrical services although I have not verified this myself)? Would a new substation(s)
be required and where will they be placed? Have you also considered that upgrading
existing homes/ offices will increase the monthly cost of rentals, affecting more
businesses and residents. Further, I understand that there may be a rebate but for
many, even if they qualify based on usage (a single person using minimal gas, such as
myself would not even qualify), however it would not cover the cost of the onerous
burden you would unnecessarily mandate.

While I appreciate we must look at options for curbing climate change and reducing the
carbon foot-print, it seems to me that we should also do so in a thoughtful, cost-
effective manner.

Many are struggling to meet financial obligations in these economic troubling times and
this initiative just does not help San Mateo. Since the proposed requirement to end gas
for EXISTING homes and buildings is above code set by the State of California AND it
would negatively impact residents, I request that you decline the plan, should it be
proposed at today's meeting.

Thank you for your consideration.

Sandra Jamme

260 of 332


--- page 261 ---
From: Anna Cwirko-Godycki eet 9:i7
Sent: Wednesday, September T3,

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Subject: Electric homes and Bike Lanes for San Mateo

Dear Commissioners:

ELECTRIC HOMES - great idea for the environment, but many reasons to delay implementation
from January 2025 to at least 2030. A city can also set realistic expectations for the number of
home conversions each year.

Reasons to delay:

1. Not clear on the specific details of the mandate.

2. Not clear on whether energy bills will be higher or lower. There is lots of debate and no clear
answer. Some studies suggest that expenditures will 2 or 3 times higher. Water heaters consume
45%-50% of energy needs for the home.

3. Not clear on whether the electric grid is sufficient for all those who will be tied to the grid.

2. San Mateo has citizens with various incomes, savings, financial resources.

Unless this mandate is economically feasible to property and business owners it should not be a
requirement. This mandate is itimidating and overwhelming. It will create undue hardship for
many families, especially retirees on fixed incomes. Yes, there are rebates and interest free loans,
but these must be clear to everyone, and a guarantee should be provided that if thousands of
homes will be upgraded at the same time there will be sufficient funds and contractors. We heard
that some people who converted their homes were unable to secure the rebates promised.

3. Is there a feasibility study on availability of sufficient professionals to prepare the electric home?
4. Is there a study on supply chain and availability of electric appliances?

5. Will the electric home require additional maintenance?

Such a major shift should not be a requirement in 1.5 years. A long period of public education and
preparation is needed.

People need to know precisely what rebates and loans are available and the processes to obtain
these. Non English speakers should have assistance with the paperwork.

BIKE LANES
While in theory | support the creation of bike lanes, | do not support them without careful
consideration of the needs of the entire community, not just the bikers.

Reasons to delay:
1. Displacing parking places for residents, resulting in parking on lawns is unconscionable.

2. Let's be real. San Mateo is not Copenhagen or Oslo in number of cyclists.
1

261 of 332


--- page 262 ---
3. Streets must be created with sidewalks, a lane for parking, a lane for bikes, and a lane for
traffic.

4, Building bike lanes on current streets, such as Norfolk will create traffic jams. There are already
traffic jams during high traffic periods (school drop off and pick up; entrance to 101 in the AM and
PM).

5. Only a minority of residents use bike lanes

6. Bike lanes are often improperly designed, give, provide a false sense of security and are often
dangerous to cars, bikers, and pedestrians.

Thank you for listening.

Anna Cwirko-Godycki

262 of 332


--- page 263 ---
rower, Laure riecrer

Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 3:24 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission; City Council (San Mateo)
Subject: Electrification

Dear Sustainability and Infrastructure Commissioners:

Please do not accelerate the timeline for replacing gas appliances with electric appliances. The costs and timeframe for
replacements are too great for most people. As for indoor health, I've had a gas stove my whole life and no one in my
family has asthma. This is my choice. | do not want any of you to make that choice for me.

The City Council voted for the electrification ordinances over the objections of many:

* In 2020, the City Council adopted an ordinance requiring all residential and office buildings be all-electric
starting on January 1, 2021.

* In 2022, the City Council approved an ordinance that expanded the all-electric requirement to all new
buildings and requires electric-readiness and electric appliances for specific home remodels as of January
1, 2023.

In May 2023, the Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) adopted zero nitrogen oxides (NOx) standards
that will prohibit the sale and installation of gas water heaters starting in 2027 and gas furnaces in 2029 in the nine-
county Bay Area, These standards are the most ambitious in the country and outpace the state’s goal of banning the sale
of new gas furnaces and water heaters throughout the state Starting in 2030. There is no need for the City of San Mateo
to jump ahead in the timelines.

The state did an extensive analysis of costs and benefits before setting dates. What data has the City or Commission
analyzed that led you to believe accelerating time frames is appropriate, necessary, or will make any difference
regarding the world climate?

This requirement is an unnecessary burden on seniors and the disadvantaged community. Please do not accelerate any
timeline for electrification.

The push for electrification is premature. The state power availability is decreasing with the planned shutdown of two
nuclear plants. The transmission grid is aging and the lack of project upgrades proposed by PG&E

(see https://www.cpuc.ca.gov/industries-and-topics/electrical-energy/infrastructure/permittin -and-environmental-
review/current-project) make me question how we can avoid regular power outages.

Electrification takes control away from citizens. Electric power can be shut off much easier than shutting off natural gas.
| do not want to be cold and hungry when we have power outages that are all too frequent in California.

The highest equity priorities for San Mateo to focus on included prevention of evictions, support for homelessness, and
more education and

programmatic support for low-income residents. Electrification will unduly burden the community the city is trying to
protect.

Do not accelerate or expand electrification.

Thank you,

263 of 332


--- page 264 ---
Laurie Hietter

264 of 332


--- page 265 ---
¥ESAUIES V1) es
Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 3:11 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Converting to all electric

What would it cost the average homeowner? My nephew was looking for a home in San Mateo, this is an automatic
dealbreaker. How many others will this turn away?

Can the City sustain enough electricity? Has anyone thought this STUPID idea all the way through. Nobody wants this
conversion!! You work for us, the taxpayer.
Sent from my iPad

‘

265 of 332


--- page 266 ---
rowers, Styata PICHiamuwTce

Sent: Wednesday, SR 5 cme 9 nr
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Subject: Re. San Mateo's Decarb Plan

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release of the draft
study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for health and financial
reasons:

« Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters and
HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff report
estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note, this is for
outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

* Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming climate with
adverse effects on residents' lives, from extreme heat to more destructive wildfires. Extreme heat is
the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these threats.

« Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our
environment and frontline communitie

« Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households by an
estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

e Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification
affordable and accessible

e Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce the
need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development support
electrification.

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier, and less
predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial considerations. With numerous
compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo, | urge you to continue facilitating our progress.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Crystal E. Hernandez
Beneficial electrification and Education Fellow
Acterra: Action for a Healthy Planet

acterra.org | subscribe

Acterra staff use self-identified pronouns to support workplace inclusion for everyone.

| respectfully acknowledge that my work takes place on the ancestral and unceded land of the Ramaytush
Ohlone. Whose land are you on?

266 of 332


--- page 267 ---
We practice Slow Fridays. Messages received on Fridays may have a delayed response.

267 of 332


--- page 268 ---
rivint. JON WICKENNa
Sent: Wednesday, —_— = -_ 3:38 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Subject: Agenda Item #3 - "Electrify San Mateo — Building for the Future: City of San Mateo
Sustainable Buildings Strategy."

Dear Chair Rowinski, Commissioners, Staff, and Consultants,

Thank you for your continued progress towards decarbonizing the City of San Mateo’s building stock. The City
has proven to be a leader in this arena at a time when such a role is critical.

As we know, the burning of fossil fuels, including gas in our homes and buildings, is a major contributor to
global warming, the negative effects of which are impacting us with increased frequency and severity, both
locally and globally.

| am the father of a 9-year-old daughter. | am doing what | can to ensure a climate safe future for her and
others. We all, within our own individual and collective capacities, can play a role in creating a safe future for all
to thrive. A safe future is in serious jeopardy unless we transition away from burning fossil fuels to clean energy
and electrification as quickly as is humanly possible. The benefits of doing so go well beyond climate stability
and include substantially greater efficiency, lower energy costs, better air quality both indoors and out,
increased safety, greater equity, and stronger resilience. The decisions we make and the actions we take
today, will determine the livability of our planet for our children and future generations. We owe it to them to
make every effort possible to create a climate safe future.

Every fraction of a degree of warming that we can avoid matters. We are at a point in time when we no longer
have the luxury of moving slowly in the right direction, we must quicken the pace of our transition away from
fossil fuels. Let's show our children that we fully understand the magnitude of the climate crisis and that we will
act accordingly with courage, creativity, and conviction.

The technology to tackle most every building electrification situation is proven and readily available. As our grid
is becoming more renewable and more reliable, we must move in parallel to transition to electric devices that
can utilize this clean energy. The local electrification workforce is growing and proving to be up to the task, and
will continue to expand. Agencies such as Peninsula Clean Energy, companies such as QuitCarbon, and
multiple community organizations are providing building owners with assistance to simplify electrification.

For so many good reasons, let's keep up the momentum towards decarbonization and accelerate towards a
safer future by treating the climate crisis with the urgency that it demands and deserves. We have a moral
obligation to our children and future generations.

Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

John McKenna

268 of 332


--- page 269 ---
rrom, Maureen Galindo sai eaten
Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 3:52 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Converting Homes and Building to Electric

Dear Committee Members,

| sent an email yesterday regarding the above subject matter. Today | would like to provide an additional thought. |
believe that it would be very wasteful to replace our perfectly working gas appliances with electric ones. It would be far
better for the environment to continue using a gas appliance until it was no longer working. In addition, have you

considered how many of these converted appliances would end up in the landfill?

Respectfully,
Maureen Galindo

269 of 332


--- page 270 ---
rrom: mMicnael / ee
Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 3:52 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Cc: lwatanuki6@gmail.com; Killough, Maurine; David Light; Francie Souza
Subject: Electrification 2025 Reach Code - Opposition

Dear SIC Commissioners - I’m writing in opposition to fast-tracking electrification in San Mateo to 2025. Many of us with
good reason have very serious doubts about rushing the timelines for electrification, given PG&E's demonstrated
ineptitude, and inability to support existing demand much less a significant increase in demand. Likewise, there are
significant costs to property owners for conversion if forced. This should be more of a carrot (incentive-based) than stick
approach, and should not be rushed to this extent.

Thanks - Michael Weinhauer

270 of 332


--- page 271 ---
From: Mary ae
Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 3:54 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission; Clerk
Subject: Proposal of Sustainability Commission concerning electric mandates

Dear Members of the Sustainability Committee and the City Council,

| am very concerned to hear about the Proposal of the San Mateo Sustainability Committee (a non-elected body) that is
supported by the San Mateo City Council, namely, that it wishes to mandate that San Mateo residential property owners
convert their houses to all electric beginning January 2025.

This is an outrage for a number of reasons.

First, in a capitalist economy, | am able to choose how | want to spend the money that | earn. Why are you preventing
me from doing so? Why are you so afraid to let people choose their cars, appliances, home heating, and other items?
Why should you control me? Why do you insist on an artificial economy that no one wants?

Second, this is extremely expensive -- an estimate, including rewiring and new electrical boxes, will approximate
$100,000 for the average house. Please don't tell me that the "Inflation Reduction Act" will pay for it. The US is nearly
bankrupt now. (Inflation, you apparently do not know, is caused by too much money being injected into an economy --
too many dollars chasing too few goods. The "Inflation Reduction Act" is only adding to inflation, which is another tax on

everyone.)

Third, this will do nothing to help the "climate crisis."

Climate change is a hoax,

Last month, more than 1600 scientists, including two Nobel physics laureates, signed a declaration saying that there is
no climate emergency. An entire revamp of society is being planned without debate and without scientific evidence.

John Clauser, a Nobe Prize winning physicist disavows the climate "crisis."

A scientist who recently published in Nature acknowledged that he had to change his theory and narrow his focus,
disregarding all mitigating factors, in order to be published because of the pro-climate change bias at that journal.

| attended a very interesting talk in 2019 by a Stanford physics professor who applied chaos theory to the weather
patterns. Although climate change models have been unable to replicate historical temperatures of the past 100 years,
the professor was able to do so by his model without regard for carbon or "climate change."

A recent article (last week) by a Noble Prize-winning physicist points out that none of the climate change models (which

are unable to replicate historical temperatures of the past century) take clouds into account even though clouds can
change temperatures by 200% or more, far more than carbon is postulated to do. (Carbon influence is only a theory.)

But, of course, none of these individuals are as smart or knowledgeable as Adam Lorraine and Amarance Lee.

271 of 332


--- page 272 ---
There is no evidence of sea level rise in San Mateo (or California).
There is no evidence of climate having changed in San Mateo (or California).

There is no evidence that mandating the use of electricity rather than gas will make the slightest difference in regard to
carbon or "climate change.” In fact, mandating the use of all electricity will only make electricity more expensive and
overload the grid, putting millions of Californians at risk.

But why is the left so enamored of climate change legislation? Power and control. A way to destroy the capitalistic
economy. A way to rule (and ruin) peoples' lives, And a way to transfer huge amounts of wealth to China.

| wrote to the San Mateo City Council last year in opposition to their proposed mandates for new construction and
replacement appliances. Amarance Lee immediately responded that | was "spreading misinformation" because |
opposed her position. So now you are going to an even greater extreme. | am still opposed. And | still have the rights to
speak out and to petition my government. Or are you going to claim a "climate emergence" that will mean the end of my
civil rights? I'm sure Ms. Lee will be on board with that.

Mary Frances Williams, Ph.D.

272 of 332


--- page 273 ---
rrom,
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Kristin Hansen

Wednesday, rere

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release
of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents' lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households
by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

273 of 332


--- page 274 ---
Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Kristin Hansen

Kristin Hansen

274 of 332


--- page 275 ---
Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 3:59 PM

To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Public Commemt on Item #3 Of 9/13 SIC Meeting

Dear Commissioners of the San Mateo SIC,

| would like to express my appreciation for the commission’s work in pushing the climate forward initiatives proposed by
the Sustainable Buildings Strategy project. A transition away from our gas-powered past is long overdue, and it is time
San Mateo pursues the bright future that lies in electrification.

May | offer to you my perspective on the positive impacts that electrification have:

As a youth in today’s society, the climate crisis sits on the forefront of my consciousness. This concern is also shared by
many others in my generation. Knowing that San Mateo county is actively promoting electrification helps alleviate these
concerns for me and my peers.

The switch to electric cooking appliances will benefit those with respiratory illnesses. | have seen firsthand the benefits
of this switch. My sister, who suffers from asthma, sees more days without respiratory attacks as a result of our
installment of an electric stove.

Electrification of our city will not only clean up the air in our homes and help us secure the health of current and future
generations, but it will also reduce our city’s carbon footprint and create jobs that myself and other youth will occupy in
the coming years.

| would like to assure you that the work of the Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission to electrify the county has the
support of the Youth, those that suffer from respiratory illness like my sister, and those that are concerned for the state

of our climate. May the Sustainable Buildings Strategy project help San Mateo set a precedent for other cities to follow
and bring the benefits of electrification to countless other communities.

Thank you.

Sincerely,
Pierce Nguyen

275 of 332


--- page 276 ---
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Wednesday, September 13,

Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Public Comment Re: SIC Agenda Item 3 - Sustainable Buildings Strategy

Sustainability & infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release

of the draft study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for

health and financial reasons:

Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters
and HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff
report estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note,

this is for outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming
climate with adverse effects on residents' lives, from extreme heat to more destructive
wildfires. Extreme heat is the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these

threats.

Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our

environment and frontline communities.

Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households

by an estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease.

Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification

affordable and accessible.

Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce
the need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development

support electrification.

276 of 332


--- page 277 ---
Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier,
and less predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial
considerations. With numerous compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo,

| urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Betsy Nash

277 of 332


--- page 278 ---
From: Mina Bressler
Sent: Wednesday, September 13, 2023 8:50 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commissioners,

| appreciate your leadership in the City of San Mateo's decarbonization efforts and the release of the draft
study for review. San Mateo's commitment to decarbonization is commendable.

| strongly support eliminating fossil fuel appliances from the city's structures, primarily for health and financial
reasons:

» Local Health Impacts: Gas appliances pose identified health risks. The Bay Area Air Quality
Management District recently passed Rule 9-4 and 9-6 to eliminate future gas water heaters and
HVAC systems due to the health effects of nitrogen oxide and particulate matter. The staff report
estimates doing so would save up to 85 lives and 15,000 asthma attacks a year. Note, this is for
outdoor air. Indoor air is likely worse.

+ Regional/Global Health Impacts: Burning natural gas/methane contributes to a warming climate with
adverse effects on residents’ lives, from extreme heat to more destructive wildfires. Extreme heat is
the leading weather cause of death. Climate change multiplies these threats.

« Environmental Concerns: Methane gas extraction methods like hydraulic fracturing harm our
environment and frontline communitie

» Cost Savings: Transitioning to electric will bring long-term cost savings, benefiting households by an
estimated $1,800 annually. As technologies advance, costs will further decrease,

» Local Support: San Mateo benefits from local initiatives and incentives, making electrification
affordable and accessible

+ Simplified Electrification: The grid is becoming more reliable, and new electric products reduce the
need for extensive rewiring. Streamlined processes and local workforce development support
electrification.

Denying the urgency of decarbonization ignores the reality of an unhealthy, hotter, costlier, and less
predictable future. Decarbonization aligns with both moral and financial considerations. With numerous
compelling reasons to accelerate electrification in San Mateo, | urge you to continue facilitating our progress.
Thank you for your dedicated service and commitment to public welfare.

Sincerely,

Mina Bressler

278 of 332


--- page 279 ---
ELECTRIFY
SAN MATEO

BUILDING FOR
THE FUTURE

City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy

9.13.23 SIC Meeting


--- page 280 ---
Presentation Goals 
▪Introduce Electrify San Mateo! Building for the Future: 
City of San Mateo Sustainable Buildings Strategy 
▪Electrification 101 
▪Review alignment with existing policies 
▪Project timeline 
▪Policy Analysis Framework: Equity & Effectiveness 
Criteria 
▪Q&A
▪Explore Building & Market Segmentation Study Results 
▪Q&A
▪Next Steps
▪Q&A
280 of 332

--- page 281 ---
Project Overview
Building electrification background & 
strategy development timeline
281 of 332

--- page 282 ---
▪Reach Climate Action Plan Goals:
▪BE-2: All-electric existing buildings
▪2030: Reduce emissions 40% below 1990 levels
▪Building emissions make up 38% of the City total
▪Gas accounts for (85)% of building related 
emissions
▪Electrification of existing buildings is the 
most cost-effective way to achieve carbon-
free buildings
▪Electricity will be carbon free by 2045 (SB 
100)- San Mateo is already on the way with 
ECO100 from Peninsula Clean Energy
▪Any replacement of new gas appliances locks in 
fossil fuel infrastructure, taking us farther from 
achieving climate goals
▪Building electrification can achieve a host of 
other co-benefits, including indoor air quality, 
protection from rising gas prices, and 
concurrent building upgrades
What is Building For the Future?
Image source: ThisOldHouse
282 of 332

--- page 283 ---
Sustainable Buildings Strategy Project Goals 
• Actionable roadmap with real steps for 
City of San Mateo to Electrify Buildings
• Approach must be cost effective 
+ most effective in reaching 
climate goals
• Use best available science and data
• Community driven approach: engage 
early and often, two phases of 
community outreach
• Policy Analysis Framework used 
as Criteria to Select Best-fit 
Policies: Effectiveness + Equity Criteria
283 of 332

--- page 284 ---
What is existing building electrification?  
• Switching from using natural gas to 
carbon-free electricity for heating/ 
cooling, cooking, and clothes drying 
in our homes, apartments, 
offices, stores, and beyond.
• Why? Allows the City of 
San Mateo to achieve climate 
goals while increasing 
community health, 
affordability, and resiliency 
through upgraded buildings 
and appliances
Image source: SCE
284 of 332

--- page 285 ---
How do we electrify 
buildings? 
▪Building Electrification: Appliances that use gas are replaced with 
electric technologies
▪‘Electrify on Replacement’ & Cost Effectiveness: Replacing gas 
appliances with electric when they stop working (‘burnout’), or 
would have been upgraded anyway, increases cost effectiveness 
since appliance would have been replaced regardless. Cost 
of electric technologies are supported by incentives from PCE, 
IRA, BayREN, and TECH.
Space heating and 
cooling: Gas Furnace →
Heat Pump
Water heating: 
Gas water heater →Heat Pump 
Hot Water Heater
Cooking: 
Gas stove →Induction Stove
Clothes Drying:
Gas Clothes Drying →
Electric Dryer
285 of 332

--- page 286 ---
Co-Benefits of Electric Buildings 
▪Greenhouse gas emission reductions
•
Building gas: 42% of total GHG emissions in 2030, 36% in 2045
▪Community Health 
•
Electronic appliances →improved air pollution, reduced risk of 
asthma (particularly childhood asthma)
▪Energy Affordability
•
Gas bills could more than double over time
▪Resilience & Safety 
•
Decreased fire & carbon monoxide risk, increased resilience with 
solar
▪Equity 
•
Equitable access to health, safety, upgraded buildings & comfort 
benefits. 
286 of 332

--- page 287 ---
Strategy Development Timeline
Summer 2023
Fall 2023
Winter 
23-24
Spring 
2024
Summer 
2024
•
Development of Equity 
+ Effectiveness 
Criteria
•
Identify range of 
feasible policy options
•
Building Inventory and 
Market Segmentation 
Analysis
•
Phase 1: Community 
Outreach: Effectiveness + 
Equity Criteria Feedback 
•
Results of building 
inventory and market 
segmentation 
•
Draft prioritized policies list 
•
Incorporation of community 
feedback for equity and 
effectiveness criteria
•
Draft policies & pathways list-
Community feedback
•
Phase 2: Outreach: 
Community feedback on 
policies  & pathways
•
Incorporation of community 
feedback in prioritized policy 
list
•
Drafting of pathway
•
Public review of draft strategy
287 of 332

--- page 288 ---
Local Policy 
Context
Building electrification & existing 
policy + climate goals
288 of 332

--- page 289 ---
Local Policy Context: 
City of San Mateo Climate Action Plan
• City of San Mateo Policy: Climate Action Plan (CAP) 
• Climate Action Plan 2030 & 2045 Targets : 
• BE 1: All-electric new construction 
• BE 2: All-electric existing buildings 
• 2030: Reduce emissions 40% below 1990 
levels
• 2050: Reduce emissions 85% below 1990 
levels
• Builds on 2015 climate action plan-
currently being updated  
• BE 2 = most significant driver of GHG 
reductions
289 of 332

--- page 290 ---
Local Policy Context: City of San Mateo Building Electrification (Reach 
Codes) 
▪Home Renovations: Started Jan. 1, 2023:
▪Reach codes for home renovations when a 
permit is issued:
• Single family homes + multifamily: panel 
capacity;
• Single family homes and duplexes: outlets 
installed; kitchen + laundry renovation
•
Single family homes and duplexes: Installation 
of heat pump air conditioning when air con is 
installed or replaced
• Single family homes; duplexes, multifamily- no 
extension of fuel gas for new fireplaces; firepits; 
grills; pools
• Single family homes and duplexes: requires 
HPWH installation during addition + alteration
▪New Construction: Started Jan. 1, 2023
▪Requires all new construction be all-electric
Image source: Canva
290 of 332

--- page 291 ---
Policy Opportunity: Bay Area Air Quality Management 
District (BAAQMD) Zero NOx Standards for Buildings 
(May 2023) 
▪Amendments to Regulation 9, Rules 4 
and 6 
▪NOx water heaters phased out by 2027 
▪NOx furnaces by 2029 
• All-electric Heat Pumps and Heat Pump 
Water Heaters are currently the only Zero 
NOx option. 
Most stringent building decarbonization 
policy in the U.S.– City of San Mateo has 
the opportunity to be ahead of the curve 
for compliance by taking action early
End uses covered by BAAQMD ruling make up 91% of home gas 
use, according to the 2019 by-household Residential Appliance 
Saturation Survey
Image Source: RASS CA, 2019, California Energy Commission 
291 of 332

--- page 292 ---
A Historic Time to Electrify: Rising Gas Prices, 2045 
Carbon Neutrality State Goals, Inflation Reduction Act
▪New federal incentives to go all-
electric: 2022 Inflation Reduction Act 
(IRA): $369 billion for clean energy and 
climate action, $8.8. billion for 
electrification incentives
▪High-Efficiency Electric Home Rebate 
(HEER) Program offers $14,000/household 
▪California State Carbon Neutrality by 
2045 – now codified into law
▪Any gas combustion is fundamentally not 
compliant with carbon neutrality as it is a 
fossil fuel
▪Gas prices could more than double as 
demand for gas drops, but fixed costs to 
transport gas stay the same (Gridworks) 
▪Building electrification can protect 
residents and businesses from rising prices 
Image source: Grist, Gridworks, CA Gas System in Transition 
292 of 332

--- page 293 ---
Policy Analysis 
Framework
Equity and effectiveness criteria 
293 of 332

--- page 294 ---
How the Policy Selection Process Works 
Community feedback shapes Equity & Effectiveness criteria: the 
values and outcomes that the City will bring forward when 
selecting policies. 
Selected policies must touch on all equity and effectiveness 
criteria
Building and Market Segmentation Analysis provide
City-specific cost & natural gas data to select the 
best-fit policy for San Mateo
Equity and effectiveness criteria + building and 
market segmentation data shape final policy 
pathway 
294 of 332

--- page 295 ---
Equity + Analysis = Policy Analysis Framework
▪Your feedback will be critical in refining 
equity and effectiveness criteria. 
▪Equity Criteria informs direction for 
how to equitably electrify existing 
residential and commercial buildings; 
▪Effectiveness criteria ensures full 
realization of electrification benefits, 
and that there will be no unintended 
consequences to other City priorities, 
or harm to residents or business 
owners
▪Each policy pathway should include 
actions that address at least one action 
that addresses each effectiveness and 
equity criteria.
295 of 332

--- page 296 ---
Energy Equity Definition 
The concept of Energy Equity recognizes that 
disadvantaged communities have been 
historically marginalized and overburdened by 
pollution, underinvestment in clean energy 
infrastructure, and lack of access to energy 
efficient housing and transportation 
(Department of Energy, Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy). https://www.energy.gov/eere/energy-equity-and-
environmental-justice
296 of 332

--- page 297 ---
Environmental Justice Communities in San 
Mateo 
▪
From the Draft San Mateo General Plan 2040: 
Equity priority communities are neighborhoods 
that experience both higher than average sources 
of pollution or contamination (such as poor air 
quality or contaminated groundwater) and 
population and health characteristics that make 
them more vulnerable to negative health 
outcomes from that pollution.
▪North Central, North Shoreview/Shoreview neighborhoods
Strive San Mateo: General Plan 2040 Draft July 2023
https://strivesanmateo.org/wp-
content/uploads/2023/07/StriveSanMateo_GP2024_DRAFT_7-28-2023_Web.pdf
Image source: General Plan 2040 Draft July 2023
297 of 332

--- page 298 ---
Equity Policy Analysis Sources & Approach
▪Building electrification & equity and 
environmental justice is a growing 
space for research: 
▪Policy analysis referenced leading 
organizations/agencies like Greenlining 
Institute*, Rocky Mountain Institute, 
U.S. Department of Energy, Equitable 
Building Decarbonization, Building 
Energy, Equity, and Power (BEEP 
Coalition; CARB) 
▪Policy analysis must be informed by 
equity-centered community outreach 
to reflect :  community feedback, lived 
experience, equity & cost concerns will 
be incorporated into the final equity &  
effectiveness criteria
*GreenLining institute was critical in the initial review of Rincon’s 
Equity Guardrails approach for City of Berkeley 
298 of 332

--- page 299 ---
Draft Equity Criteria 
•
Provide equitable access to health, safety, 
and comfort benefits 
•
Encourage Concurrent Housing Condition 
Improvements
•
Advance Energy Equity 
•
Support High Road Job Opportunities 
•
Maximize Ease of Installation 
•
Promote Affordable Housing and Prevent 
Renter Displacement 
Image source: UMich
299 of 332

--- page 300 ---
Draft Effectiveness Criteria 
• Cost Effective 
• Feasible 
• Measurable and Sustained 
Impact 
• Reliable 
• Enforceable 
Image source: Adobe Stock
300 of 332

--- page 301 ---
Seer hs


--- page 302 ---
Building Inventory and 
Market Segmentation 
Study
302 of 332

--- page 303 ---
Overview: Building and Market Segmentation 
Guiding Questions 
1. How much will it cost to electrify residential 
buildings? 
2. What are the on-bill costs of all-electric buildings
3. Where is the most gas used? 
4. What policy approach is needed to electrify existing 
uses of natural gas in buildings based on the specific 
profile of buildings in the City? 
• Vintage (age); count; building types & 
existing appliances in use (ex. stoves; pools) 
303 of 332

--- page 304 ---
What Buildings are in San 
Mateo? 
Residential & Commercial: Building Count, Stock, Vintage
304 of 332

--- page 305 ---
Building Stock Analysis 
Single Family Homes
Number of Single Family  Residential Buildings in San Mateo Built 
by Year
66,950 
27,544 
2,270 
 -
 10,000
 20,000
 30,000
 40,000
 50,000
 60,000
 70,000
 80,000
1970 or earlier
1970-2010
2010 or newer
Number of Buildings
Electrification implications + Key Takeaways
▪~96,800 single family residential buildings
▪70% of City building stock was built in 1970 
or earlier
▪Before 1970, panel and service upgrades 
could be more common
▪Buildings built before 1970 are more likely 
to have electric panels of 100 amps or less, 
or fuse boxes, both of which may present 
hurdles to electrify
▪However, retrofit ready heat pump 
products, circuit sharing technologies, and 
home electrification plans could help 
building owners avoid panel and service 
upgrades
Data source: Parcel Data (San Mateo County)
305 of 332

--- page 306 ---
Building Stock Analysis 
Multifamily Housing
Electrification implications + Key 
Takeaways
▪~12,100 multifamily residential buildings 
▪Most multifamily buildings are 
duplex
▪At the time of analysis, no building 
vintage data for multifamily buildings was 
available
Data source: Parcel Data (San Mateo 
County)
Multifamily Housing in San Mateo (#, by Housing Type) 
 -
 1,000
 2,000
 3,000
 4,000
 5,000
 6,000
Duplex
Triplex
FourPlex
Five or more units
Other
306 of 332

--- page 307 ---
Building Stock Analysis 
Commercial Buildings 
Electrification implications + Key 
Takeaways
▪Most common commercial building 
types in the City of San Mateo are 
offices, followed by retail
Data source: Parcel Data (San Mateo 
County)
Commercial Buildings by Type in City of San Mateo 
291
268
144
122
108
84
51
50
39
45
42 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
307 of 332

--- page 308 ---
What Appliances and Fuels are 
Used in San Mateo? 
Gas vs. Electricity Use: Water Heating, Space Heating/ Cooling, Air 
Conditioning, Stoves & Clothes Dryers
308 of 332

--- page 309 ---
Residential Gas Use Summary
▪90% of gas use is for space and water 
heating
Data source: California Residential 
Appliance Saturation Study
309 of 332

--- page 310 ---
Appliance and Fuel Source Analysis
Water Heating (1) 
Electrification implications + Key 
Takeaways
▪The vast majority of water heaters run 
on gas
▪Note that gas-fired water heaters 
require electricity to operates 
▪Multifamily buildings have the 
largest % of electric water heating
▪Scope: San Mateo County
Data source: Peninsula Clean Energy, 
Residential Appliance Saturation 
Survey, American Community Survey 
Water Heater Fuel Types by Building Type
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
120%
Single family owned
Single family rented
Multifamily rent
Multifamily condo
Mobile homes
Gas Water Heater
Electric Water Heater
Bottled Gas Water Heater
310 of 332

--- page 311 ---
Appliance and Fuel Source Analysis
Space Heating (1)  
Electrification implications + Key 
Takeaways
▪Space heating in San Mateo County sees 
a broader use of electric appliances and 
multifamily condos
▪Propane and wood use is still seen in the 
county, likely in unincorporated regions
▪Scope: San Mateo County
Data source: Peninsula Clean Energy, 
Residential Appliance Saturation 
Survey, American Community Survey 
Space Heating by Fuel and Building Type
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
Single family owned
Single family rented
Multifamily rent
Multifamily condo
Mobile homes
Utility gas
Electricity
Propane
Wood
311 of 332

--- page 312 ---
Appliance and Fuel Source Analysis
Air Conditioning
Electrification implications + Key 
Takeaways
▪Most residential buildings in San Mateo 
County do not have air conditioning 
▪Those that do, mostly single-family owned 
buildings, have central AC 
▪Scope: San Mateo County
Data source: Peninsula Clean Energy, 
Residential Appliance Saturation 
Survey, American Community Survey 
Air Conditioning by Type in San Mateo County Homes
 -
 20,000
 40,000
 60,000
 80,000
 100,000
 120,000
 140,000
 160,000
Single family
owned
Single family
rented
Multifamily rent
Multifamily
condo
Mobile homes
No A/C
Multiple A/C Types
Room A/C only
Central Evap Cooler only
Central A/C only
312 of 332

--- page 313 ---
Appliance and Fuel Source Analysis
Stoves 
Electrification implications + Key 
Takeaways
▪Gas and propane stoves make up 
approximately 60% of stoves, while 
electric units make up the remaining 40%
▪Electric stoves are most common in multifamily 
rental units
▪Scope: San Mateo County
Data source: Peninsula Clean Energy, 
Residential Appliance Saturation 
Survey, American Community Survey 
Stoves by Fuel Type and Building Type
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
120%
Single family owned Single family rented
Multifamily rent
Multifamily condo
Mobile homes
Percent Adoption by Appliance Type
Natural Gas
Electricity
Bottled Gas
313 of 332

--- page 314 ---
Appliance and Fuel Source Analysis
Clothes Dryers
Electrification implications + Key 
Takeaways
▪Electric dryers make up 40% of all dryer 
use, while only 27% are gas
▪Most electric clothes dryers have a dryer on 
site, while the remaining 34% does not
▪Scope: San Mateo County
Data source: Peninsula Clean Energy, 
Residential Appliance Saturation 
Survey, American Community Survey 
Fuel for Clothes Dryers by Household Type in San Mateo County
 -
 20,000
 40,000
 60,000
 80,000
 100,000
 120,000
 140,000
 160,000
Single family
owned
Single family
rented
Multifamily rent Multifamily condo
Mobile homes
No Dryer
Electricity
Natural Gas
314 of 332

--- page 315 ---
Appliance and Fuel Source Analysis
Commercial Gas Consumption by End Use
Electrification implications + Key 
Takeaways
▪Total natural gas usage from commercial 
buildings in PG&E service area estimated 
at 565 million therms per year
▪3 building types represent 54% of gas use: 
Restaurants (21%). Misc, (20%), and Health 
(13%)
Data source: 2016 California 
Commercial End-Use Survey (CEUS), 
California Energy Commission, PG&E
*2018-2022 CEUS not yet available
Commercial Gas Consumption by End Use 
315 of 332

--- page 316 ---
Appliance and Fuel Source Analysis
Commercial Space Heating
Electrification implications + Key 
Takeaways
▪Replacing packaged Single Zone Gas 
Furnaces with Cooling with electric heat 
pump rooftop package units (classified as 
‘easy to electrify’) offers a near cost-
equal 1 to 1 swap, and a significant 
electrification opportunity even without 
additional resources
Data source: PCE 2035 
Decarbonization Plan
Commercial Space Heating by Prevalence by Type (PCE Analysis) 
316 of 332

--- page 317 ---
Appliance and Fuel Source Analysis
Commercial Water Heating
Electrification implications + Key 
Takeaways
▪Most buildings use gas tank water 
heaters, with a higher proportion of 
commercial buildings in sports, 
healthcare, specialty, and student using 
tanked water heaters
▪Some uptake of electric tank and tankless 
heaters in retail, office, and ‘flex’ buildings
Data source: 2035 PCE 
Decarbonization Study
Commercial Water Heating Equipment Prevalence by Type
317 of 332

--- page 318 ---
Seer hs


--- page 319 ---
How much will it cost building 
owners to electrify? 
Residential & Commercial Buildings Electrification Economics
319 of 332

--- page 320 ---
Overview: Residential Cost Analysis 
Framework
▪Rincon analyzed upfront costs 
to electrify based on available 
data from PCE, BayREN, and the 
County of San Mateo
▪Upfront costs = appliance + 
install labor + associated costs 
like permits and wiring
▪Panel upgrades were broken 
out as a separate cost
This Photo by Unknown Author is licensed under CC BY
320 of 332

--- page 321 ---
Key Takeaways: Upfront Residential Electrification Costs
Marginal costs for electrification are higher, but 
can reach parity with existing rebates.
Whole home electrification could save San Mateans $709 
when compared to the cost of gas-for-gas appliance 
replacements.
• Full-home appliance replacement with new gas
appliances: $11,012 - $18,512
• Marginal cost of full-home electrification before
rebates: $13,291- $20,936
• Marginal cost of full-home electrification after
rebates: +$4,836 to -$709 (cost savings)
321 of 332

--- page 322 ---
Incentives for Electrification
$21,600 available to support home electrification through 
IRA, BayREN, PCE, TECH*
Heat Pump HVAC Total 
Rebates + Credits: $7,500 
PCE: $3,500
BayREN: $1,000
IRA Tax Credit: $2,000
TECH: $1,000
HPWH Total Rebates + Credits: 
$6,000
PCE: $3,000
BayREN: $1,000
IRA Tax Credit: $2,000
Induction Stove Total Rebates 
+ Credits: $250
BayREN: $250
Electric Dryer Total 
Rebates + Credits: $250
BayREN: $250
Electric Panel Total Rebates + Credits: $2,100: PCE: $1,500: IRA: $600
+TECH Total Electric Home Rebates (all systems): $5,500
PCE also provides up to $10,000 in zero percent loans for building electrification. 
*As of August 28 2023; Incentives change regularly based on stacking; availability. These incentives will be updated prior to community outreach
322 of 332

--- page 323 ---
Gas-For-Gas Scenario
Electrification implications + Key 
Takeaways
▪Most San Mateans (75%) do not have AC 
▪If a building owner were to replace 
every electrifiable appliance, with a 
similar gas appliance, they would spend 
$11,012 w/o AC
▪Key takeaway: building owners would 
have invested in costly appliance 
upgrades regardless, in a ‘electrify on 
replacement’ scenario
Like-for-Like Scenario: Replace Gas Appliances with Similar, New 
Gas Appliances (Total Costs) 
Appliance, Install, Wiring
Median/Average Cost (All Data) 
Gas-fired water heater
$                                                   2,800 
Gas-fired HVAC system
$                                                   6,132 
AC (keep existing Furnace) 
$                                                   7,500 
Gas-fired dryer
$                                                      925 
Gas-fired stove
$                                                   1,155 
Whole-Home Cost w/o AC 
$                                                11,012 
Whole-Home+ AC
$                                                18,512 
323 of 332

--- page 324 ---
Gas-to-Electric Scenario
No Incentives
Electrification implications + Key Takeaways
▪Avoiding panel upgrades through home 
electrification planning, panel splitters, “watt 
diet” etc. could save building owners ~$3,700
▪Because of significant market, labor quote 
variation in HVAC system, Rincon ran two cost 
scenarios to control for significant variation 
(low, median cost) 
▪Total cost to electrify without incentives: 
$24,303-$31,948
Electrification Scenario: Cost to Replace Gas Appliances with 
Electric Appliances (No Incentives, Total Costs) 
Appliance, Install, Wiring
Median/Average Cost (All Data)
Electric heat pump water heater
$
6,000
Electric heat pump HVAC system (heating and cooling)*
$
17,910
$
13,965
Electric dryer
$
1,963
Electric stove
$
2,375
Panel Upgrade**
$
3,700
Low Cost Scenario HP: Whole-Home Cost ( w/o panel upgrade )
$
24,303
Low Cost Scenario HP: Whole-Home Cost (+ panel upgrade)
$
28,003
Median Cost Scenario HP: Whole-Home Cost ( w/o panel upgrade) $
28,248
Median Cost Scenario HP: Whole-Home Cost (+ panel upgrade)
$
31,948
324 of 332

--- page 325 ---
Gas-to-Electric Scenario – Marginal Cost
Electric-Gas Appliance Replacement Costs
Electrification implications + Key 
Takeaways
▪Low-Cost HVAC Scenario: Cost gap 
to close with incentives 
*:
$13,291--$16,991
▪Median-Cost HVAC Scenario: Cost 
gap to close with incentives *: 
$17,236-$20,936
▪Homes with AC will experience greater 
cost effectiveness for electrification 
(25% of San Mateo Homes)
▪Avoiding panel upgrades would also 
allow for greater cost savings
Electrification Scenario Detailed Marginal Costs
Appliance
Median/ Average Cost
Electric heat pump water heater
$                                 3,200 
Without AC: Electric heat pump HVAC system 
$                              11,778 
$                                 7,833 
With AC: Electric heat pump HVAC system (heating and cooling; replaces 
need for additional AC ) 
$                               (7,500)
Electric dryer
$                                 1,038 
Electric stove
$                                 1,220 
Additional One-Time Costs: Panel Upgrade**
$                                 3,700 
Low Cost Scenario HP: Whole Home Electrification Marginal Cost (w/o AC or 
panel Upgrade)
$                              13,291 
Median Cost Scenario HP: Whole Home Electrification Marginal Cost (w/o AC 
or panel upgrade) 
$                              17,236 
Low Cost Scenario HP: Whole Home Electrification Marginal Cost (Without AC 
WITH Panel upgrade)
$                              16,991 
Median Cost Scenario HP: Whole Home Electrification Marginal Cost 
(Without AC WITH Panel upgrade)
$                              20,936 
Full-Home Electrification Marginal Cost (with AC, no panel upgrade) (low cost 
scenario) 
$                                 5,791 
Full-Home Electrification Marginal Cost (with AC, no panel upgrade) (Median 
cost scenario) 
$                                 9,736 
Full Home Electrification Marginal Cost (with AC, Panel Upgrade- low cost 
scenario) 
$                                 9,491 
Full Home Electrification Marginal Cost (with AC, Panel Upgrade, median cost 
scenario) 
$                              13,436 
325 of 332

--- page 326 ---
Electrification Marginal Upfront Costs + Incentives
Costs to Electrify with Incentives Applied
Electrification implications + Key 
Takeaways
▪In low-cost HVAC scenario, 
with no panel upgrade, 
electrification is $709 cheaper 
than full-home gas appliance 
replacement 
▪With AC, Median HVAC 
scenario + panel upgrade, 
electrification scenario 
outperforms full-home gas 
appliance replacement by 
$2,665
▪In median-cost HVAC 
scenarios, building owners still 
may incur $3,236-$4,836 in 
costs
• Key Variables: HVAC install costs, 
electric panel replacement needs
Electrification Marginal Upfront Costs + Incentives
Appliance
Cost 
Estimate
Minus Combined 
Incentives 
Total Marginal Cost 
With Incentives 
Electrification Scenario Marginal Cost with Peninsula Clean Energy, BayREN, IRA Rebates
Electric heat pump water heater
$         3,200 $                   (6,000) $                           (2,800)
Without AC-Low Cost HVAC
$         7,833 $                   (7,500) $                               333
Without AC- HVAC system
$      11,778 $                   (7,500) $                             4,278 
With AC- HVAC System 
$         4,278 $                   (7,500) $                           (3,222)
Electric dryer
$         1,038 $                      (250) $                                 788 
Electric stove
$         1,220 $                      (250) $                                 970 
Additional One-Time Costs - Panel and New 
Circuts 
$         3,700 
$                   (2,100) $                             1,600 
Total Costs no panel upgrade Low Cost HVAC No AC
$                           (709)
Total Costs no Panel Upgrade Median HVAC no AC
$                             3,236 
Total Costs + Panel Upgrade Median HVAC w/o AC 
$                             4,836 
Total Costs + Panel Upgrade Median HVAC with AC 
$                           (2,665)
326 of 332

--- page 327 ---
On-Bill Costs to Electrify – Upcoming Analysis 
Overview- Work in Progress Peninsula Clean Energy On-
Bill Cost Analysis 
▪Draft findings from PCE show all-
electric buildings can cost the 
same or less to operate compared 
to mixed-fuel 
▪On-bill impact is dependent on 
the rate structure being used 
▪Full analysis will be provided 
when complete (next SIC 
meeting) 
327 of 332

--- page 328 ---
Commercial Building Cost Analysis
▪Costs are highly variable, most large buildings have over sized systems, preventing a 1:1 replacement without 
efficiency or downsizing measure first 
▪Small and medium sized retail or service buildings have similar electrification costs to single-family homes. 
▪Most interviewers recommend building performance standards, as electrifying large buildings cannot be a ‘one-
size-fits-all’ approach
▪Rooftop package units offer relative cost parity in comparison to gas, even without additional incentive
▪Potential cost-effective policy lever 
Data sources: Rincon contractor interviews (City of Sacramento), Rocky Mountain Institute Economics of Electrifying Existing 
Buildings, PCE 2035 Decarbonization Plan 
PCE 2035 Decarbonization Plan shows near 
cost parity for rooftop packaged heat pump 
installation costs 
328 of 332

--- page 329 ---
Seer hs


--- page 330 ---
Next Steps: Phase 1 Community Outreach
Next SIC Meeting: 1/10 Review Finalized Prioritized Policies List 
Summer 2023
Fall 2023
Winter 
23-24
Spring 
2024
Summer 
2024
•
Development of Equity 
+ Effectiveness Criteria
•
Identify range of 
feasible policy options 
•
Building Inventory and 
Market Segmentation 
Analsysis 
•
Phase 1: Community 
Outreach: Effectiveness + 
Equity Criteria Feedback 
•
Results of building 
inventory and market 
segmentation 
•
Draft prioritized policies list 
•
Incorporation of community 
feedback for equity and 
effectiveness critera
•
Draft policies & pathways list-
Community feedback 
•
Phase 2: Outreach: 
Community feedback on 
policies  & pathways
•
Incorporation of community 
feedback in prioritized policy 
list
•
Drafting of pathway
•
Public review of draft strategy
330 of 332

--- page 331 ---
Thank you!
Questions? Contact: 
achow@sanmateocity.org
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4730
/Electrify-San-Mateo
331 of 332

--- page 332 ---
GHG Emissions by Sector 
0
2,000,000
4,000,000
6,000,000
8,000,000
10,000,000
12,000,000
14,000,000
16,000,000
18,000,000
20,000,000
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Therms
Residential
Nonresidential (Commercial & Industrial)
Res – 80,000 MT CO2e
Com – 43,000 MT CO2e
332 of 332