Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
Visit Flock
Prince George County VA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Sat Aug 22 2026

Overview

Prince George County Police Department VA utilizes ALPR technology to enhance overall public safety efforts. This technology provides actionable data for reactive case work, active criminal investigations, and other critical law enforcement functions. Guidelines and operational procedures are in place to ensure individual privacy and proper utilization. Policy, statistical data, and other information is available to the public.

Community Impact
Featured Success Stories

Success Stories

Before sunrise recently, a cyclist equipped with proper lighting was struck from behind by a vehicle that fled the scene. The collision left the cyclist with significant injuries. While investigators found no license plate at the scene, they recovered broken mirror fragments that identified the vehicle's likely make and model. By searching ALPR (Automated License Plate Recognition) databases, investigators pinpointed the suspect vehicle at a residence several jurisdictions away. The driver subsequently admitted his involvement. The Flock Safety database was a critical component of this investigation, enabling law enforcement to identify the suspect and successfully bring the case to court.
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

21 days

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

308,624

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

182

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCMEC Amber Alert, NCIC - VSP

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

507
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Prince George County VA PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.

Provided by Flock Safety