San Mateo Police Department	  200 Franklin Parkway
	San Mateo, CA 94403-1921
	Telephone: 650-522-7710
	FAX: 650-522-7711
	 HYPERLINK "http://www.cityofsanmateo.org" http://www.cityofsanmateo.org



To: Chief Barberini
From.  Lieutenant Steve Casazza
Date: December 19, 2025
Re: Flock ALPR Audit pursuant to policy 463 (November 2025)
SUMMARY:
The San Mateo Police Department obtained city council approval for the use of Flock Automated License Plate Readers in 2020.  After obtaining council approval, the police department entered into a contract with Flock Safety for fifty-four cameras.  Of those fifty-four cameras, forty-nine are fixed ALPR cameras and are placed in specific locations throughout the city limits.  The five remaining cameras are affixed to message boards/traffic trailers.  These message boards/traffic trailers are moved throughout the city depending on need.

ANALYSIS:
Only authorized users within our agency are granted access to the Flock system, ensuring its use is restricted, secure, and compliant with policy.  Our accounts are limited to trained personnel, including Officers, Crime Analysts, Dispatchers, and Community Service Officers.  All users are required to complete department-approved training to operate or access the Flock ALPR system pursuant to Lexipol policy 463.9 and Standard Operating Procedures (SOP’s) 205.3 and 205.4. 

A recent review of our organizational and shared network user accounts was conducted, and it was confirmed only our current employees trained and authorized to utilize the system have access to our Flock account and that our data is not shared or accessible by any agencies outside the State of California.

Since the inception of our Flock ALPR System, our in-house administrators have conducted regular reviews of our internal organizational use to ensure compliance with law and policy.  This process includes clarifying policy expectations and providing guidance when appropriate.   The audits and follow-up process is intended to ensure accountability, protect the integrity of the ALPR system, safeguard privacy rights, and maintain public trust while ensuring the system is used strictly for legitimate law enforcement purposes.  

As the Flock ALPR system has developed, there are now drop-down options that require an offense type, reason, and an option for case number or CAD number when our users are conducting searches. This new system went in place on December 1, 2025 and should further enhance the integrity of our ALPR usage and provide clearer documentation during audits and reviews. 
In December, I conducted an audit for November 2025 to ensure users followed law and policy by listing proper reasons for search as well as case numbers or incident numbers when utilizing the system.      

The next audit will take place in January to review data from December 2025. 















