Stanwood reactivates Flock cameras as Spokane County joins Pierce County in shutting them down – KIRO 7 News Seattle Sections WATCH 64 ° WATCH News PinPoint Weather Stream Now KIRO 7 Investigates Sports Gets Real KIRO 7 Cares (Opens in new window) Steals & Deals News National Politics PinPoint Weather 7-Day Forecast Hour by Hour Ski Report School Closings Pet Walk Forecast Weather 24/7 Stream Stream Now Live Stream KIRO 24/7 News Weather 24/7 KIRO 7 Live Studio (Opens in new window) Recent Videos Raw Video The $pend $mart Stream Cheddar Law & Crime Curiosity NOW Gusto TV KIRO 7 Investigates Sports Seattle Seahawks Seattle Mariners Seattle Kraken Seattle Sounders Seattle Storm College Sports High School Football On Home Ice Special Programming Seattle Pride Christmas in July Seattle Seafair Hit and Miss with Monique Ming Laven KIRO 7 Toy Drive Destination Discover Healthier Together Discover Northwest Woodland Park Zoo (Opens in new window) Your Voices KIRO 7 CARES Seattle Aquarium Washington Grown Seattle Waterfront Local Jobs Back to School Steals and Deals Gets Real Live Traffic Apps & Newsletters KIRO 7 Apps Newsletter Sign-ups (Opens in new window) About Us KIRO 7 News Team Submit a news tip KIRO 7 TV Schedule Advertise With Us Contact Us Closed Captioning KIRO 7 FCC EEO Report (Opens in new window) KIRO 7 Public File (Opens in new window) Visitor Agreement Privacy Policy Telemundo Seattle (Opens in new window) Telemundo Contactanos Jobs at KIRO 7 (Opens in new window) Weather Alert | Flood Warning 1/1 KIRO 7 Now Resize: Drag to Resize Video Local Stanwood reactivates Flock cameras as Spokane County joins Pierce County in shutting them down By Julia Dallas, MyNorthwest.com April 02, 2026 at 2:21 pm PDT Enter Fullscreen Expand Flock Safety Falcon® FILE (Flock Safety) + Caption (Flock Safety) By Julia Dallas, MyNorthwest.com April 02, 2026 at 2:21 pm PDT This story was originally posted on MyNorthwest.com Washington cities and counties are changing their automated license plate reader (ALPR) policies in response to a new law regulating technology. The City of Standwood has decided to reactivate its Flock Safety cameras, while Spokane County has joined Pierce County in shutting them down. Standwood’s Flock Camera System will be reactivated later this month following Washington Governor Bob Ferguson’s signing of the Driver Privacy Act, according to a news release from the City of Stanwood. The Driver Privacy Act, or Senate Bill 6002 , requires agencies to delete most license plate data within 21 days, prohibits data collection near schools and immigration facilities, and restricts sharing information with out-of-state or federal agencies. Violations could result in gross misdemeanor charges and penalties under the Consumer Protection Act. Stanwood cameras were deactivated in May to comply with the evolving legal requirements. Now, the city is reinstating the camera system in alignment with the new law. Stanwood currently has 14 Flock cameras along major routes entering and exiting the city. City officials noted that any cameras that don’t meet the requirements will remain inactive and be relocated. “I’m pleased that the legislature overwhelmingly recognized the value of keeping residents safer through technology on the one hand while balancing the need to impose guardrails that help protect privacy rights on the other,” Stanwood Mayor Sid Roberts stated in the release. The City of Stanwood praised Flock cameras for helping officers respond more quickly and efficiently to crimes. The cameras help Stanwood police solve property crimes, find stolen cars, identify cars linked to criminal activity, and aid in missing persons cases. “We are committed to following state law while balancing public safety and individual privacy,” Stanwood Police Chief Glenn DeWitt stated. “These tools help further safeguard our city while ensuring we respect the rights and expectations of our community.” City officials noted police do not use Flock cameras for immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment, or personal use. They added that under the new law, data collected by the system will only be retained for 21 days, and that access is strictly limited to authorized law enforcement. Spokane County shuts down Flock cameras over legal risk Meanwhile, other jurisdictions in Washington are so frustrated with the new law that they have decided to shut down the camera system entirely. The Spokane County Sheriff’s Office (SCSO) announced Wednesday via Facebook that it is deactivating its ALPR technology and associated systems. “This new state law imposes significant restrictions on ALPR systems, some of which were ill-considered, leading us to make this difficult decision,” SCSO stated in its post. “We are assessing how we continue using this crucial law enforcement tool inside the boundaries set by this new law. We did not make this choice lightly, and we believe the legislation as passed is making our community less safe.” The sheriff’s office called it a difficult decision, acknowledging that ALPR technology has proven highly effective in solving crimes, apprehending violent offenders, finding missing people, and locating stolen vehicles and suspects. Ultimately, however, authorities said the legal risk was too great to continue using the cameras as deputies could be charged with a gross misdemeanor. Spokane County Sheriff John Nowels said he is going to continue working with lawmakers to find a solution. “I believe some in the legislature had good intentions, but unfortunately, it seems they did not completely understand ALPR technology, how effective it is, or the many ways it is used and not used,” Nowels stated. “These imposed restrictions have made it nearly impossible for law enforcement agencies across the State of Washington to continue using ALPR systems as currently designed and implemented, and that is unacceptable. I will continue to work with legislators and other law enforcement organizations to help find a reasonable solution to the unintended consequences that I believe make our community less safe.” Pierce County sheriff says ALPR system is now useless Back in western Washington, Pierce County Sheriff Keith Swank has also decided to deactivate his entire ALPR system, claiming it’s now useless. “We could be driving past stolen cars, cars that have a suspect wanted for homicide,” Swank told KIRO Newsradio. “Those cameras help us differentiate those cars, the bad guys, from the good guys, and we won’t be able to use that tool anymore.” Swank argued the restrictions are impossible to comply with, specifically the ban on cameras near protected places like schools and hospitals, because in-car cameras can’t be turned off manually. Supporters argue the law is needed to protect immigrant communities from federal enforcement and community privacy. Contributing: Frank Lenzi and Jillian Raftery, KIRO Newsradio Follow Julia Dallas on X. Read her stories here . Submit news tips here. ©2026 Cox Media Group 0 View Comments Most Read Police: Student stabbed to death at UW apartment, suspect on the run School board votes to do away with Bothell High School SRO program KCRHA gives first steps after audit says millions are missing Gig Harbor resident’s door damaged in viral TikTok “door-kick challenge” Seattle man detained in Hawaii after allegedly throwing rock at endangered monk seal News Local Stream Now National/World Live Traffic PinPoint Weather Stormtracker HD About Us Contact Us What's on KIRO 7 KIRO 7 Cares KIRO 7 Public File KIRO 7 Public File Contact KIRO 7 Closed Captioning Contact FCC Applications Jobs at KIRO 7 Follow Us KIRO 7 News Seattle facebook feed(Opens a new window) KIRO 7 News Seattle twitter feed(Opens a new window) KIRO 7 News Seattle youtube feed(Opens a new window) © 2025 Cox Media Group . This station is part of Cox Media Group Television. Learn about careers at Cox Media Group. By using this website, you accept the terms of our Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy , and understand your options regarding Ad Choices . Manage Cookie Preferences