--- page 1 ---
LOCAL
Everett
flips Flock
cameras
back on
under new
state law
By Julia Dallas,
MyNorthwest.com
April 23, 2026 at 1:45 pm PDT
By Julia Dallas,
MyNorthwest.com
April 23, 2026 at 1:45 pm PDT
EVERETT, Wash. — The City of Everett has turned its Flock cameras, a popular type of
automated license plate reader (ALPR), back on after a new state law took effect,
exempting ALPR footage from the Public Records Act.
Caption
+
NEWS
PINPOINT WEATHER
STREAM NOW
KIRO 7 INVESTIGATES
SPORTS
GETS REAL
KIRO 7 CARES
STEALS & DEALS
1/2
WEATHER ALERT | Flood Warning
KIRO 7
Now
Resize:
Drag to Resize Video
80°
WATCH

--- page 2 ---
A city spokesperson confirmed with The Everett Herald that the camera network was
restarted in early April following the signing of Senate Bill 6002 (SB 6002). Under the
new law, police can use ALPR data when investigating felonies or gross
misdemeanors, stolen vehicles, or missing persons, according to Flock Safety.
However, data collected by the cameras can only be retained for 21 days, and the
cameras cannot be used near protected places such as schools, places of worship,
healthcare facilities, immigration facilities, and food banks.
Everett city leaders turned off the cameras in February after a judge ruled the footage
was public record, according to The Everett Herald. City officials argued the footage
shouldn’t be available for public use to protect crime victims and victims of domestic
violence and stalking.
The recent legislation bars ALPR footage from the Public Records Act, making city
leaders more comfortable with leaving the cameras on.
“This new state law ensures that we can protect the privacy of residents – including
victims of domestic violence, harassment, and stalking – from anyone who may have
had the intention of misusing this information,” city spokesperson Simone Tarver told
The Everett Herald in a statement.
A patchwork response to Flock cameras statewide
Renton paused its ALPR cameras as well, not over public records concerns, but to
verify that the network complies with the new state law. The City of Renton
announced Wednesday that it turned the system back on.
“We thoroughly evaluated the new law, updated our policies, strengthened data
governance and retention protocols, and reinforced accountability measures to align
with current legal and community expectations,” the department stated.
Meanwhile, Pierce County Sheriff Keith Swank, who has been vocal about his
disdain for SB 6002, decided to indefinitely deactivate Pierce County’s Flock camera
system, claiming it’s now useless.
Swank argued the ban on Flock cameras near protected places like schools is
impossible to comply with because the cameras can’t be turned off manually.

--- page 3 ---
“It’s not possible to do it manually,” he told KIRO Newsradio. “Can you imagine this?
You’re running code, lights, and a siren to a shooting, and then you go, ‘Oh my gosh, I
gotta remember to turn off the camera here, because I’m going to get close to within
500 feet of a school on my way to the school shooting or whatever,’ right? I mean, no,
it’s, it’s ridiculous.”
The Spokane County Sheriff’s Office (SCSO) announced earlier this month via
Facebook that it was deactivating its ALPR technology and associated systems.
“This new state law imposes significant restrictions on ALPR systems, some of which
were ill-considered, leading us to make this difficult decision,” SCSO stated in its post.
“We are assessing how we continue using this crucial law enforcement tool inside the
boundaries set by this new law. We did not make this choice lightly, and we believe
the legislation as passed is making our community less safe.”
Washington Governor Bob Ferguson said the reset is necessary to protect community
privacy.
“This is also about Washington’s constitution and the fact that we need to respect the
privacy of all individuals anytime we take on technology, particularly surveillance
technology,” Ferguson said.
In mid-March, Seattle Mayor Katie Wilson ordered an audit of the city’s surveillance
camera pilot program and halted its expansion, though existing cameras stayed
active. Weeks earlier, Lynnwood had gone further, with its city council voting
unanimously in February to cancel the Flock Safety contract altogether, making it the
first city in Washington to do so over privacy concerns.
Contributing: Jillian Raftery, KIRO Newsradio
Follow Julia Dallas on X. Read her stories here. Submit news tips here.
This story was originally published on MyNorthwest.com.
©2026 Cox Media Group

--- page 4 ---
QO Jointhe Conversation| view comments |

GET BREAKING NEWS &

SEVERE WEATHER ALERTS | “Ro
WHILE ON THE GO!



--- page 5 ---
Most Read
Three people from King County
potentially exposed to hantavirus
Seattle Mayor budget deficit nears half-
billion dollars, raising threat of taxes
and layoffs

--- page 6 ---
NEWS
Local
Stream Now
National/World
Live Traffic
PINPOINT WEATHER
Crews responding to fire on roof of
Temple Theatre in Tacoma
Suspect arrested in deadly Growler Guys
shooting
Docs: Tacoma grandma fights off bloody
intruder who broke into several homes
after police shooting

--- page 7 ---
Stormtracker HD
ABOUT US
Contact Us
What's on KIRO 7
KIRO 7 Cares
KIRO 7 Public File
KIRO 7 Public File Contact
KIRO 7 Closed Captioning Contact
FCC Applications
Jobs at KIRO 7
FOLLOW US
© 2025 Cox Media Group. This station is part of Cox Media Group Television. Learn
about careers at Cox Media Group. By using this website, you accept the terms of our
Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy, and understand your options regarding Ad
Choices.
Manage Cookie Preferences