--- page 1 ---
LOCAL
Washingto
n
immigratio
n attorney
sued by
nine
former
clients for
alleged
malpractic
e
By Madeline Ottilie, KIRO
7 News
May 19, 2026 at 4:27 pm PDT
VIDEO: Immigration lawyer sued for
malpractice
NOW PLAYING
ABOVE
NEWS
PINPOINT WEATHER
STREAM NOW
KIRO 7 INVESTIGATES
SPORTS
GETS REAL
KIRO 7 CARES
STEALS & DEALS
1/1
WEATHER ALERT | Flood Warning
KIRO 7
Now
Resize:
Drag to Resize Video
54°
WATCH

--- page 2 ---
By Madeline Ottilie, KIRO
7 News
May 19, 2026 at 4:27 pm PDT
A Washington immigration attorney is now facing a federal civil malpractice lawsuit
filed by nine former clients.
The clients allege that Alexandra Lozano promised them “miracles” in their
immigration cases, but instead engaged in deceptive, negligent, and fraudulent
practices.
According to court documents, Lozano allegedly deceived both her clients and
immigration authorities through her services. In some cases, clients allege that false
statements were prepared on their behalf without their knowledge or consent.
Plaintiff Nora Patricia Murillo Moreno told KIRO 7 she sought out Lozano’s services
after she was sold on a “miracle.” Her husband and three children are U.S. citizens
and she was hoping to get a green card.
“If she said she makes miracles, why not?” Murillo Moreno said.
According to court documents, Lozano allegedly pressured Murillo Moreno to
“embellish facts and make claims that she did not fully agree with.”
Lozano had also allegedly filed and signed a declaration on Murillo Moreno’s behalf
that “consisted of exaggerated and/or false statements,” according to court
documents.
At the time, Murillo Moreno had been traveling back and forth to Mexico to visit her
sick father. When she attempted to return to the U.S. after one such trip in February,
Murillo Moreno said she was stopped at the border and told her residency application
had been denied.
Murillo Moreno says Lozano had never told her about the denial or about a court
hearing she was allegedly supposed to attend.

--- page 3 ---
“I begged them (immigration officials) to send me to court,” Murillo Moreno said. “I
have nothing with me, no clothes.”
She has been in Mexico ever since.
“What really hurts is my sons, to be away from them,” she told KIRO 7.
Murillo Moreno is one of nine former clients named in the lawsuit. The case alleges
that Lozano’s services “were illusory, negligent, and even fraudulent.”
The lawsuit also alleges that Lozano filed fraudulent claims for visas that their clients
were not eligible for, particularly pursuant to the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA)
and human trafficking (T-Visa).
VAWA provides protections to victims of domestic violence, while the T-Visa program
provides immigration benefits to survivors of human trafficking.
“We’ve had scores of people contact us,” said Aric Bomszyk, an attorney for the
plaintiffs. “To this day, new inquiries are coming in.”
“These folks have deep roots in this country,” said Vicente Omar Barraza, another
attorney for the plaintiffs. “They’ll happily spend $15,000 or more per person for the
opportunity to achieve their American dream, and now it’s turned into a nightmare.”
In a statement to KIRO 7, Lozano said she took these matters seriously and that any
issues involving regulatory or legal processes will continue to be addressed through
appropriate channels.
“For nearly 20 years as an attorney, and throughout the last 11 years leading my law
firm, my work has consistently centered on advocating for immigrants and
supporting the communities they are part of—especially in complex, high-stakes
situations where the path forward is not always clear,” Lozano wrote.
She added that immigration law has changed dramatically in recent years.
“Policies, procedures, and adjudication trends under the current administration
created challenges and outcomes unlike anything many practitioners had previously
experienced, including significant shifts in processing, discretion, and case results
across the industry,” Lozano wrote. “Despite those changes, our commitment has

--- page 4 ---
remained the same: to fight for our clients, pursue every lawful option available, and
continue serving our community with compassion, integrity, and dedication.
“We are deeply client-centered and results-oriented, and I’m proud that our work has
helped change the lives of thousands of individuals and families. That commitment is
reflected not only in the trust our clients place in us, but also in my published work
and the mission that continues to guide our firm every day,” Lozano wrote.
Attorneys for the plaintiffs have created a website tracking case developments. They
believe there may be additional potential victims.
If you believe you are one of them, the attorneys are asking you to reach out to them.
You can find more details here.
©2026 Cox Media Group
0 Join the Conversation
View Comments

--- page 5 ---
GET BREAKING NEWS &
SEVERE WEATHER ALERTS | “Ro
WHILE ON THE GO!



--- page 6 ---
Most Read
Driver dies in fiery crash in Shoreline
14 cars broken into in Parkland, Police
searching for 4 suspects
Disney layoffs include woman who saved
‘Toy Story 2’

--- page 7 ---
NEWS
Local
Stream Now
National/World
Live Traffic
PINPOINT WEATHER
Stormtracker HD
ABOUT US
Contact Us
What's on KIRO 7
KIRO 7 Cares
Family attends court hearing for man
accused of killing Growler Guys
employee
Seahawks’ Jaxon Smith-Njigba calls out
NFL for glaring fumble on trophy

--- page 8 ---
KIRO 7 Public File
KIRO 7 Public File Contact
KIRO 7 Closed Captioning Contact
FCC Applications
Jobs at KIRO 7
FOLLOW US
© 2025 Cox Media Group. This station is part of Cox Media Group Television. Learn
about careers at Cox Media Group. By using this website, you accept the terms of our
Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy, and understand your options regarding Ad
Choices.
Manage Cookie Preferences