--- page 1 ---
LOCAL
Stanwood
reactivates
Flock
cameras as
Spokane
County
joins
Pierce
County in
shutting
them down
(Flock Safety)
By Julia Dallas,
MyNorthwest.com
April 02, 2026 at 2:21 pm PDT
Caption
+
NEWS
PINPOINT WEATHER
STREAM NOW
KIRO 7 INVESTIGATES
SPORTS
GETS REAL
KIRO 7 CARES
STEALS & DEALS
1/1
WEATHER ALERT | Flood Warning
KIRO 7
Now
Resize:
Drag to Resize Video
64°
WATCH

--- page 2 ---
By Julia Dallas,
MyNorthwest.com
April 02, 2026 at 2:21 pm PDT
This story was originally posted on MyNorthwest.com
Washington cities and counties are changing their automated license plate reader
(ALPR) policies in response to a new law regulating technology.
The City of Standwood has decided to reactivate its Flock Safety cameras, while
Spokane County has joined Pierce County in shutting them down.
Standwood’s Flock Camera System will be reactivated later this month following
Washington Governor Bob Ferguson’s signing of the Driver Privacy Act, according to a
news release from the City of Stanwood.
The Driver Privacy Act, or Senate Bill 6002, requires agencies to delete most license
plate data within 21 days, prohibits data collection near schools and immigration
facilities, and restricts sharing information with out-of-state or federal agencies.
Violations could result in gross misdemeanor charges and penalties under the
Consumer Protection Act.
Stanwood cameras were deactivated in May to comply with the evolving legal
requirements. Now, the city is reinstating the camera system in alignment with the
new law. Stanwood currently has 14 Flock cameras along major routes entering and
exiting the city. City officials noted that any cameras that don’t meet the
requirements will remain inactive and be relocated.
“I’m pleased that the legislature overwhelmingly recognized the value of keeping
residents safer through technology on the one hand while balancing the need to
impose guardrails that help protect privacy rights on the other,” Stanwood Mayor Sid
Roberts stated in the release.
The City of Stanwood praised Flock cameras for helping officers respond more
quickly and efficiently to crimes. The cameras help Stanwood police solve property
crimes, find stolen cars, identify cars linked to criminal activity, and aid in missing
persons cases.

--- page 3 ---
“We are committed to following state law while balancing public safety and individual
privacy,” Stanwood Police Chief Glenn DeWitt stated. “These tools help further
safeguard our city while ensuring we respect the rights and expectations of our
community.”
City officials noted police do not use Flock cameras for immigration enforcement,
traffic enforcement, harassment, or personal use. They added that under the new
law, data collected by the system will only be retained for 21 days, and that access is
strictly limited to authorized law enforcement.
Spokane County shuts down Flock cameras over legal risk
Meanwhile, other jurisdictions in Washington are so frustrated with the new law that
they have decided to shut down the camera system entirely. The Spokane County
Sheriff’s Office (SCSO) announced Wednesday via Facebook that it is deactivating its
ALPR technology and associated systems.
“This new state law imposes significant restrictions on ALPR systems, some of which
were ill-considered, leading us to make this difficult decision,” SCSO stated in its post.
“We are assessing how we continue using this crucial law enforcement tool inside the
boundaries set by this new law. We did not make this choice lightly, and we believe
the legislation as passed is making our community less safe.”
The sheriff’s office called it a difficult decision, acknowledging that ALPR technology
has proven highly effective in solving crimes, apprehending violent offenders, finding
missing people, and locating stolen vehicles and suspects. Ultimately, however,
authorities said the legal risk was too great to continue using the cameras as deputies
could be charged with a gross misdemeanor.
Spokane County Sheriff John Nowels said he is going to continue working with
lawmakers to find a solution.
“I believe some in the legislature had good intentions, but unfortunately, it seems
they did not completely understand ALPR technology, how effective it is, or the many
ways it is used and not used,” Nowels stated. “These imposed restrictions have made
it nearly impossible for law enforcement agencies across the State of Washington to
continue using ALPR systems as currently designed and implemented, and that is
unacceptable. I will continue to work with legislators and other law enforcement

--- page 4 ---
organizations to help find a reasonable solution to the unintended consequences that
I believe make our community less safe.”
Pierce County sheriff says ALPR system is now useless
Back in western Washington, Pierce County Sheriff Keith Swank has also decided to
deactivate his entire ALPR system, claiming it’s now useless.
“We could be driving past stolen cars, cars that have a suspect wanted for homicide,”
Swank told KIRO Newsradio. “Those cameras help us differentiate those cars, the bad
guys, from the good guys, and we won’t be able to use that tool anymore.”
Swank argued the restrictions are impossible to comply with, specifically the ban on
cameras near protected places like schools and hospitals, because in-car cameras
can’t be turned off manually.
Supporters argue the law is needed to protect immigrant communities from federal
enforcement and community privacy.
Contributing: Frank Lenzi and Jillian Raftery, KIRO Newsradio
Follow Julia Dallas on X. Read her stories here. Submit news tips here.
©2026 Cox Media Group
0 Join the Conversation
View Comments

--- page 5 ---
GET BREAKING NEWS &

SEVERE WEATHER ALERTS | “Ro
WHILE ON THE GO!



--- page 6 ---
Most Read
Police: Student stabbed to death at UW
apartment, suspect on the run
School board votes to do away with
Bothell High School SRO program
KCRHA gives first steps after audit says
millions are missing

--- page 7 ---
NEWS
Local
Stream Now
National/World
Live Traffic
PINPOINT WEATHER
Stormtracker HD
ABOUT US
Contact Us
What's on KIRO 7
KIRO 7 Cares
Gig Harbor resident’s door damaged in
viral TikTok “door-kick challenge”
Seattle man detained in Hawaii after
allegedly throwing rock at endangered
monk seal

--- page 8 ---
KIRO 7 Public File
KIRO 7 Public File Contact
KIRO 7 Closed Captioning Contact
FCC Applications
Jobs at KIRO 7
FOLLOW US
© 2025 Cox Media Group. This station is part of Cox Media Group Television. Learn
about careers at Cox Media Group. By using this website, you accept the terms of our
Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy, and understand your options regarding Ad
Choices.
Manage Cookie Preferences