source: packet.pdf
sha256: c4c9af9b314c68130ca1ad542817515a57b2514297821475c80df03fd2d853ba
pages: 81
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission 
February 11, 2025
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Seema Patel, Chair
Adam Nugent, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Adam Klafter
Margaret Williams
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: February 11, 2025
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 896 7570 9263      Passcode: 247523
The Planning Commission meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's
jurisdiction that are not on the agenda.  Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of
15 minutes for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's
jurisdiction. The Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the
agenda, but shall refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 and Section
27.08.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those
issues raised at the public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing.
Some public hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
 
1.
Zoning Code Amendments - Implementation of Housing Element Policies and General Plan Ballot Measure T
Recommend to the City Council adoption of two ordinances that amend sections of the San Mateo Municipal
Code Title 27, Zoning to: 1) implement various programs and policies established in San Mateo’s 2023-2031
Housing Element (Sixth Housing Cycle) and 2) implement General Plan Ballot Measure T, approved by voters on
November 5, 2024; and find that the ordinances are exempt from further environmental review pursuant to
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Section 15183 (Projects Consistent With a Community Plan, General
Plan, or Zoning).

--- page 2 ---
CEQA: In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15183, the Zoning Code Amendments are exempt from further
environmental review because they are consistent with General Plan 2040 for which an Environmental Impact
Report was certified.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be
made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.For
transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: planningcommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Planning Division Office at (650) 522-7212 or planning@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 24-9511
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
February 11, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Zoning Code Amendments – Implementation of Housing Element Policies and General Plan Ballot Measure T
RECOMMENDATION:
Recommend to the City Council adoption of two ordinances that amend sections of the San Mateo Municipal Code Title 
27, Zoning to: 1) implement various programs and policies established in San Mateo’s 2023-2031 Housing Element (Sixth 
Housing Cycle) and 2) implement General Plan Ballot Measure T, approved by voters on November 5, 2024; and find that 
the ordinances are exempt from further environmental review pursuant to California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Section 15183 (Projects Consistent With a Community Plan, General Plan, or Zoning).
BACKGROUND:
2023-2031 Housing Element
San Mateo’s 2023-2031 Housing Element provides a plan to accommodate the City’s Regional Housing Needs Allocation 
(RHNA) of 7,015 new housing units, support the production of housing at all income levels and affirmatively further fair 
housing for the Sixth Housing Element Cycle. The City Council adopted the 2023-2031 Housing Element on May 20, 2024, 
and it was subsequently certified by the State Housing and Community Development Department (HCD) on July 23, 2024. 
Since 1969, California has required that all local governments (cities and counties) adequately plan to meet the housing 
needs of their community. Local governments meet this requirement by adopting housing elements, which are updated 
every eight years. The Housing Element is a "chapter” of a city’s General Plan, which is also required by State law. 
However, it is the only element of the General Plan subject to State requirements for content, and it must be certified by 
HCD. State funding programs for transportation, infrastructure, and housing often require or consider a local jurisdiction’s 
compliance with housing element law. In addition, non-compliant housing element requirements and targets could 
potentially affect a local jurisdiction’s ability to impose local zoning and land use controls over housing development and 
receive certain types of State funding and grants. 
The Housing Element includes five overall goals to support compliance with state law and to achieve the City’s RHNA – 
Supporting Production, Preservation, Protection, Promotion, and Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing.  To achieve these 
goals during this Housing Cycle, the Housing Element includes 53 policies with 150 implementation actions. Numerous 
Housing Element policies and programs require Zoning Code amendments.  For practical and efficiency purposes, staff has 
bundled a number of these updates into the first phase of Zoning Code Amendments. These include many revisions that 
are prescribed in detail within an implementation action item and/or are mandated by State Law. In summary, the 
proposed Ordinance (Attachment 1) includes the following:
•
Allows residential uses as a permitted use in commercial districts (C1, C2, C3) and office districts (E1 and E2) (Policy 
H1.7).
•
Adds a definition for single room occupancy (SRO) and amends the Zoning Code to allow SROs in the R4 District

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
(will also apply to R5, R6 and Downtown Districts with an R overlay) (Policy H1.7)
•
Eliminates the need for special use permits for multiple-family housing in mixed-use zoning districts (Policy H1.7)
•
Removes Chapter 27.17 Manufactured Homes and simplifies development standards for manufactured homes on 
a permanent foundation to be the same as single-family homes (Policy H1.7)
•
Removes any prohibitions of accessory dwelling units (ADUs) in zoning districts as a permitted use per state law 
(Policy H1.7) 
•
Adds new zoning code terms and definitions related to housing and updates existing definitions to add clarity and 
be consistent with state law. (Policies H1.7, H1.13, H1.14, H1.15, H1.16, and H3.7) 
•
Amends the Zoning Code to allow group homes and residential care facilities for people with special needs in all 
residential zones and only subject to those objective standards that apply to other residential uses of the same 
type in the same zone in conformance with state law. (Policy 1.13)
•
Amends the Zoning Code to define and allow farmworker housing within the Agricultural District consistent with 
state law (Policy H1.16)
•
Modifies the emergency shelter definition and adds development standards to the definition. Adds new terms and 
definitions for supportive housing and low-barrier navigation centers. Allows for emergency shelters, supportive 
housing, and low-barrier navigation centers in certain zoning districts per state law and/or staff recommendation. 
(Policy 3.7)
Additional Housing Element policies and programs that require Zoning Code amendments will be brought forward as soon 
as possible, in the first half of this year, namely: 
•
Update the inclusionary housing policy to include alternative compliance options to the City’s current onsite 
inclusionary unit development (Policy H1.3)
•
Evaluate setting minimum densities in mixed-use zoning districts (Policy H1.9)
Additional amendments warrant deeper policy discussions and community outreach, and will be addressed as part of the 
City’s Comprehensive Zoning Code Update to implement General Plan 2040:
•
Update Zoning Code standards to support housing production including excluding covered parking and other 
elements as needed from Floor Area Ratio (FAR) calculation for housing projects with affordable units (Policy H1.7)
•
Amend the Zoning Code to reduce off-street parking requirements for residential units and make 
recommendations to reduce or eliminate any other parking related requirements identified as a constraint. (Policy 
H1.7)
The Implementation Plan of the Housing Element, which was presented to the City Council at a study session on June 3, 
2024, contains timelines that required the City to complete some proposed Zoning Code amendments in 2024. These 
timelines were part of the City’s January 2023 adopted Housing Element, which needed multiple updates before it was 
eventually certified by HCD in July 2024, more than 18 months after these timelines were established.  City staff also 
needed to receive the certified November 2024 election results on Measure T (see additional information below) to 
incorporate density provisions in the Implementation Plan. Notably, the City did take action in July 2024 to streamline 
housing application review (Policy H 1.6) by eliminating the pre-application requirement for housing projects and 
eliminating third party design review for housing projects that meet objective design standards.  That same month, the 
City amended the Zoning Code to establish a By-Right designation for housing sites reused from prior Housing Elements for 
housing projects that propose a minimum of 20% affordable units. Zoning for these sites must be at least 30 units/acre to 
meet default density requirements for lower-income households per Gov. Code Section 65583.2(c) (Policy H1.10).  Even 
before then, in November 2023, the City amended the Zoning Code to allow residential projects with up to 25 units to be 
approved administratively and adopted objective design standards for residential projects and mixed-use projects with a 
residential component.  Overall, staff started work on all policies and actions with a 2024 timeline as soon as adoption and 
certification occurred, and much of the work was completed by the end of the year.  But, due to time constraints and the 
fall election, completion of some of these efforts will be happening in the first half of 2025.

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
General Plan 2040
General Plan 2040 was adopted by the City Council on March 18, 2024, and included some land use designations that 
exceed the City’s voter-approved height and density limits (Measure Y).  While Measure Y was in effect, any conflicts
between these limits and the General Plan defaulted to Measure Y, restricting full implementation of the Land Use
Element. Following extensive community outreach, on July 15, 2024, the City Council voted to place Measure T on the
November 5, 2024 ballot. Measure T proposed repealing Measure Y, such that its limits within the ten General Plan Study 
Areas would be repealed (but largely retained elsewhere) to enable the full implementation of the General Plan's Land Use 
Map. Voters approved Measure T, which became effective on December 19, 2024, 10 days after the City Council certified 
the election results.  In addition to supporting implementation of General Plan 2040, approval of Measure T added 
approximately 10,000 units of housing capacity to the Housing Element’s Sites Inventory, which was a key objective 
identified by HCD when it certified the City’s Housing Element (Policy H 1.20).
The passage of Measure T increased the capacity of the Sites Inventory in the Housing Element from 10,286 units (over 
and above the RHNA allocation of 7,015 units) to approximately 20,000 units, and further expanded development capacity 
within the City by roughly an additional 10,000 units, for an approximate total of over 30,000 units of housing.  Even prior 
to the passage of Measure T, the City has demonstrated a strong track record of supporting housing developments, such 
as Kiku Crossing, a recently completed development with 225 affordable units, Peninsula Heights on Campus Drive, 
currently under construction, with 290 units and 477 9th Ave, a mixed-use project with 120 units that will be starting 
construction this spring. Additional projects under review, approved  and/or constructed within the past five years are 
listed in Attachment 5.  
Notably, the City has seen an uptick in development applications following approval of Measure T this past November.  For 
example, an application was submitted in January 2025 for the vacant site at 230 S. El Camino Real at the corner of El 
Camino Real.  The project is a five-story mixed-use building (34,000 sq ft total), with 5,000 sq ft of ground floor commercial 
and 28 residential units above, with four below market rate (BMR) units.  Another proposal submitted in December 2024 
involves the development of an eight-story building at 668 E. 3rd Ave. with 125 residential units, 15% of which would be 
designated for very low-income households, with another 14% for moderate income households.  A different application 
submitted the same month, at the Bayshore Corporate Commons site (1650 S. Amphlett Blvd.) proposes 192 townhome 
style condominiums and 94 single-family homes, including 39 BMR units for moderate income households.  In November 
2024, another proposal was filed for a 181-unit housing development at 715 San Mateo Drive, including 18 BMR units for 
very low-income households.  All of the foregoing preliminary applications were filed under SB 330.  Planning staff 
continues to discuss potential applications with interested developers, and the City expects to see additional applications 
filed in the coming months.
The City will also begin a Comprehensive Zoning Code Update to align the Zoning Code with General Plan 2040. Until that 
effort is complete, an Ordinance to amend the General Provisions section of the Zoning Code is proposed (Attachment 2) 
to update existing sections of the Zoning Code relating to implementation of Measure T and general plan consistency. This 
Ordinance would incorporate the uses, densities, intensities, and heights specified in Land Use Element of the General Plan 
2040 (Measure T) where they may conflict with the existing Zoning Code. This Ordinance will establish the standards in 
General Plan 2040 as governing until the Zoning Code has been updated. This amendment also ensures that the City’s 
Zoning Code is consistent with the General Plan and in conformance with state law (Government Code Sections 65589.5 
and 65860). 
DISCUSSION: 
Zoning Code Amendments
To implement the General Plan and Housing Element policies, State law requires that the City review and update the 
Zoning Code to ensure that its review processes and requirements are compatible with the objectives, policies, and 
programs specified in the General Plan and in conformance with State Law. San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) Section 
27.060.040(c) requires the Planning Commission to review amendments to the Zoning Code and make a recommendation 
to the City Council. 
The proposed Ordinance in Attachment 1 includes Zoning Code amendments that would amend certain sections of the

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Zoning Code to facilitate and support the production of new housing at all income levels, but especially affordable housing, 
and to facilitate and support protection of current residents to prevent displacement, and the opportunities for expanding 
homeless shelters and other types of residential uses. 
The proposed Ordinance in Attachment 2 includes amendments to SMMC Chapter 27.02 (General Provisions) to modify 
the existing language to be consistent with General Plan 2040 and Measure T.  What this means is that this proposed 
Ordinance would allow for the full implementation of the Land Use Element in General Plan 2040 (Measure T).  Where 
there is a conflict or inconsistency between the Zoning Code and the General Plan 2040, the uses, densities, intensities and 
heights specified in Table LU-1 (Land Use Designations) in the Land Use Element and associated with the Land Use Map 
shall control.  This language will remain in place while the Zoning Code undergoes a comprehensive update process for 
realignment with General Plan 2040.  That update process is anticipated to take approximately two years as it involves the 
review and rezoning of thousands of parcels in the City (primarily within the 10 study areas), the establishment of 
completely new zoning designations to align with the higher density/intensity land use designations, and a restructuring of 
the entire Zoning Code to improve functionality and usability, remove antiquated and outdated language and 
requirements, and fully align it with policies in the General Plan.  The work will be phased, with the time sensitive work 
related to establishing new zoning designations to align with the new land use designations, and critical parcel rezonings 
occurring in the initial phases of this effort.
A summary of the proposed amendments and how they align with Housing Element Policies, Program Measures, and 
Implementation Actions is included as Attachment 3. The summary also includes relevant State Law references and a 
discussion of how each implementation action is addressed in the zoning code amendments. A track-changes version of 
the code amendments to show existing and proposed language is included as Attachment 4.
Staff recommends the Planning Commission find the proposed ordinance and zoning code modifications are in 
conformance with the Housing Element Policies referenced above to facilitate and support the production of new housing 
at all income levels, to facilitate and support protection of current residents to prevent displacement, and to create 
opportunities for expanding homeless shelters and other types of residential uses.
Housing Projects - Administrative Approval Threshold
On November 20, 2023, the City Council adopted Objective Design Standards (ODS) for multi-family and mixed-use 
projects with a residential component and, as noted above, amended the Zoning Code to increase the administrative 
approval threshold for residential projects from six units to 25 units.  As part of this action, Council requested that staff 
investigate the possibility of further increasing the administrative approval threshold to further support and streamline the 
approval process for housing projects in compliance with the ODS.
In response to this direction, staff surveyed other jurisdictions around the Bay Area and State to understand the range of 
project sizes that were allowed to be approved administratively (without a public hearing).  A total of 23 jurisdictions 
responded to staff’s inquiry.  Of those responding cities, 18 cities allow residential development projects to be approved 
administratively if adhering to objective design standards. Of the 18 cities, 13 cities use the development project’s unit 
count as the threshold, three cities allow projects of any size to be approved administratively (Sacramento, Milpitas, and 
San Leandro), and two cities (Redwood City and Santa Rosa) use height/size thresholds. Of the 13 cities that use a unit 
count threshold, only two of them (Fairfield, 150 units and Pleasanton, 50 units) have a threshold of 50 units or more (see 
Attachment 5).  
In reviewing multi- family residential or mixed-use development projects with less than 10,000 square feet of commercial 
floor area approved in San Mateo over the past five years, there were a total of 17 projects (see Attachment 5). Five of 
those projects contained 50 units or less. Of those five projects, two projects were up to 25 units and both projects were 
four stories in height. The other three projects were between 25 and 50 units with heights of four, five, and six stories. 
Under the City’s ODS, projects between four to seven stories are considered mid-rise buildings and subject to the same 
objective design standards; therefore, if the threshold for Zoning Administrator review is raised from 25 to 50 units, those 
residential development projects would likely be built in mid-rise structures and be required to conform to the same 
objective design standards as projects up to 25 units. In addition, other city policies, ordinances, and standards apply 
equally to all multiple-family residential development projects and are equally reviewed under the State’s Housing

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Accountability Act, which limits the City’s ability to deny residential projects that comply with objective standards. 
Therefore, to meet and exceed the commitment of Housing Element Policy H1.6, to support streamlining the housing 
application review process, staff recommends modifying the Powers and Duties of the Zoning Administrator (Section 
27.06.020(h)(1)(A)) to review and take final action on proposed residential development projects that are consistent with 
the ODS by increasing the project size threshold from 25 to 50 units, and similarly the Planning Commission Jurisdiction's 
(Section 27.06.040(a)(3)(A)) approval authority for residential development projects that meet objective design standards 
from 26 to 51 units. Mixed-use development projects with more than 10,000 square feet of commercial floor area would 
still exceed the threshold and not be eligible for Zoning Administrator review and approval.
Next Steps
Following this Planning Commission public hearing, the City Council will hold a public hearing to introduce the Ordinances, 
which is tentatively scheduled for March 17, 2025. Once introduced, the Ordinances would be then brought back for 
second reading and adoption at a subsequent City Council meeting, and would  become effective 30 days afterwards.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Zoning Code Amendments to implement the Housing Element and General Plan are fully funded in the Community 
Development Department’s annual operating budget, utilizing the Advanced Planning Fund, and do not impact the City’s 
General Fund. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The Environmental Impact Report (EIR) for General Plan 2040 analyzed new residential development of up to 19,764 new 
housing units and growth around the City through 2040. On March 18, 2024, the City Council certified the EIR.  
In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines Section 15183, the zoning amendment to 
modify housing development provisions and development standards (“Project”) is exempt from further environmental 
review because the Project, which generally allows for more housing types to be permitted uses in specific zoning districts 
and remove regulatory barriers from the zoning code, is consistent with the anticipated land uses under the land use 
designations adopted as part of General Plan 2040 for which an EIR was certified.  There are no specific proposed changes 
to residential development densities, and it is consistent with the development densities established by General Plan 2040.  
The Project is also consistent with the implementation policies of the adopted and certified Housing Element and pursuant 
to certain mandates in state law. 
Applying Section 15183, there are no project specific effects that are peculiar to the project; there are no project specific 
impacts that the General Plan EIR failed to analyze as significant effects; there are no potentially significant off-site and 
cumulative impacts that the EIR failed to evaluate; there is no substantial new information which results in more severe 
impacts than anticipated by the EIR; and projects will be required to comply with mitigation measures contained in the EIR.  
Furthermore, any future development of sites where these code amendments would apply would be evaluated as a 
potential “Project” under CEQA and if necessary, be further assessed for their potential environmental impacts prior to 
City entitlement.
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met, including the publishing of a public notice in a newspaper of general 
circulation at least 20 days in advance of the public meeting in compliance with Assembly Bill (AB) 2904 and Government 
Code Section 65854. 
Additionally, staff sent meeting details in the Planning Division eNewsletter, citywide eNewsletter, the Housing Element 
interested parties list, and posted to the Planning Division’s What’s Happening in Development webpage. Staff has not 
received any public comments as of the publication of the agenda report. Public comments submitted after agenda 
publication will be posted to this item on the City’s Public Meeting Portal as “Post Packet Public Comments.”
ATTACHMENTS

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Att 1 – Draft Ordinance – Zoning Code Amendments to Implement Housing Element Policies 
Att 2 – Draft Ordinance – Zoning Code Amendments to Implement General Plan Ballot Measure T 
Att 3 – Summary and Discussion of Ordinance Changes
Att 4 – Proposed Zoning Code Amendments (Track Changes)
Att 5 – Residential Development Project and City Survey Data
STAFF CONTACT
Steve Golden, Principal Planner
sgolden@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7215

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Amending Several Chapters of Title 27, Zoning, of the San Mateo Municipal Code to Implement the 
2023-2031 San Mateo Housing Element (Sixth Housing Cycle) 
WHEREAS, the State Housing Element Law (Government Code Section 65580 et seq.) requires that 
the City Council adopt a Housing Element for the 2023-2031 period to accommodate the City of San Mateo 
(“City”) regional housing need allocation (RHNA) of 7,015 housing units; and 
WHEREAS, on May 20, 2024, the City Council adopted a resolution to adopt the revised Housing 
Element of the General Plan for the period of 2023-2031 (Housing Element); and
WHEREAS, under Housing Element Goal 1 – Production and the Policies H1.7, H1.13, H1.14, 
H1.15, and H1.16, the City commits to reviewing and amending the City’s Zoning Code to increase 
affordable housing production, update standards to support housing production, and address special 
needs groups and supportive housing requirements; and
WHEREAS, under Housing Element Goal 3 – Protection, the City commits to facilitating and 
supporting protection of current residents to prevent displacement. Policy H3.7 requires the City to 
evaluate opportunities for expanding homeless shelters; and
WHEREAS, the Environmental Impact Report (EIR) for the San Mateo General Plan 2040 
analyzed new residential development of up to 19,764 new housing units and growth around the City 
through 2040; and 
WHEREAS, on March 18, 2024, at a duly noticed public hearing, the City Council certified the EIR 
for the San Mateo General Plan 2040, pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act of 1970, 
together with related State implementation guidelines promulgated thereunder (CEQA); and
WHEREAS, on ______________, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing, 
received all written and oral public comments, and recommended that the City Council approve the 
proposed ordinance to amend several Chapters of Title 27, Zoning, of the San Mateo Municipal Code to 
Implement the 2023-2031 San Mateo Housing Element (Sixth Housing Cycle) and Measure T, General 
Plan Ballot Measure (November 2024 Election).
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION 1. Legislative Findings.  At a duly noticed public hearing on _____________________, 
2025, the City Council of the City of San Mateo reviewed and considered the accompanying 
staff report and attachments thereto, the exemption from environmental review, together 
with comments received during the public review process, and hereby finds and determines 
that the proposed ordinance is consistent with the adopted General Plan in that it supports 
the development of housing and achieves the General Plan’s stated goals and policies.
SECTION 2. Section 27.04.130 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.04.130
COMMUNITY CARE FACILITY.

--- page 10 ---
A "community care facility" means any place or building which is maintained and 
operated to provide 24-hour non-medical residential care, or day care services for children, 
adults, or both, limited to the following:
(a) Residential Care Facility. A residential care facility means a family home, group 
home, residential care facility for the elderly, foster home, intermediate care facility or similar 
facility, for 24-hour non-medical care of persons in need of personal services, supervision, or 
assistance essential for sustaining the activities of daily living or for the protection of the 
individual;
(b) Day Care Center. A day care facility means any facility which provides non-medical 
care to persons (adults and/or children) in need of personal services, supervision, or 
assistance essential for sustaining the activities of daily living or for the protection of the 
individual on less than a 24-hour basis;
(c) Family Day Care Home. A family day care home means a facility which provides 
care, protection, and supervision of no more than 14 children in the caregiver's own home, for 
periods of less than 24 hours per day, while the parents or guardians are away.
SECTION 3. Section 27.04.165 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.04.165
DWELLING.
"Dwelling" means a building or portion thereof, designed or used exclusively for 
residential occupancy, including a one-family dwelling unit, an accessory dwelling unit, a junior 
accessory dwelling unit, a two-family dwelling unit, a multiple-family dwelling unit, or a single 
room occupancy but does not include a hotel, motel, boarding or lodging houses or other 
lodging facilities, or a vessel or boat, or a house trailer.
(a) "Accessory dwelling unit" means an attached or detached residential dwelling unit 
which provides complete independent living facilities for one or more persons, is accessory to 
the primary residential dwelling unit or units, and includes permanent provisions for living, 
sleeping, eating, cooking facilities and sanitation on the same parcel as the primary residential 
dwelling unit.
(b) " Studio unit" means a dwelling unit consisting of one principal room used for living 
and sleeping purposes, plus cooking facilities, and a bathroom.
(c) "Junior accessory dwelling unit" means an additional, independent living unit 
constructed within the walls of a proposed or legally existing single-family residence, including 
attached garages.
(d) "Multiple-family dwelling" means a building or portion thereof, designed or altered 
for occupancy by three or more families living independently of each other.

--- page 11 ---
(e) "One-family dwelling" means a building containing one cooking facility only and 
designed exclusively for use and occupancy by one family, including the provision of interior 
access to all bedrooms, and may include a junior accessory dwelling unit within the principal 
dwelling.
(f) “Primary residential dwelling unit” means a building or separate portion thereof 
designated and/or customarily used as a residence by not more than one family and typically 
situated on a parcel or lot on which no other primary dwelling is located. Each dwelling unit 
within a multiple-family or two-family dwelling is also considered a primary residential 
dwelling unit (does not apply to junior accessories dwelling units or attached accessory 
dwelling units). The primary residential dwelling unit shall be larger, in terms of floor area, 
than any other residential unit situated on the same parcel or lot. 
(g) “Single Room Occupancy” (SRO) means housing composed of individual efficiency 
dwelling units, where each unit has a minimum floor area of 150 square feet and a maximum 
size of 500 square feet. To qualify as an SRO development, no more than 10% of the units in a 
development may contain individual kitchens and bathrooms. Any unit not developed with an 
individual kitchen or bathroom must have access to common areas containing kitchen and 
bathroom facilities. SROs must be leased for a minimum of 30 consecutive days and also 
include apartment hotels. SROs are not required to provide any residential care or supportive 
services.
(h) "Two-family dwelling" means a building(s) designed or altered to provide attached 
(duplex) or detached dwelling units for occupancy by two families living independently of each 
other.
SECTION 4. Section 27.04.170 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.04.170
DWELLING UNIT
"Dwelling unit" means one or more rooms in a structure which are arranged or 
designed for use by one family, which includes provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking 
and sanitation, and if located on multiple levels/stories, the unit provides interior connections 
from a common living area (including but not limited to a living room, family room, dining 
room, kitchen, or other common living areas as determined by the Zoning Administrator). 
SECTION 5. Section 27.04.177 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.04.177
EMERGENCY SHELTER.
"Emergency shelter" means overnight emergency housing typically operated by a 
governmental or nonprofit agency. It serves as the principal shelter of the inhabitants for a 
temporary period and may include services like food, sanitation, laundry, health and child 
care, transportation, and social services. Emergency shelters includes other interim

--- page 12 ---
interventions, including, but not limited to, a navigation center, bridge housing, and respite or 
recuperative care. 
Emergency shelters are subject to the following: (a) The shelter must maintain a 
documented management plan that outlines strategies for staff training, community outreach, 
security measures, resident intake, and, when relevant, programs like job training or 
counseling; (b) each emergency shelter is restricted to a maximum of one hundred (100) beds, 
serving no more than one hundred (100) people at one time; (c) individuals or families may 
reside at the shelter for up to 180 days consecutively, except when longer stays are part of 
ongoing training or rehabilitation efforts outlined in the management plan; (d) the shelter may 
provide one or more common facilities, such as central cooking and dining rooms, recreation 
rooms, counseling centers, childcare centers, or other support services, exclusively for 
residents; (e) the shelter must have designated staff on-premises during all operational 
hours;(f) no more than one (1) emergency shelter shall be allowed within a radius of three 
hundred (300) feet from another such facility, measured from the nearest property lines; (g) 
the interior on-site waiting and intake area must be at least two hundred (200) square feet; 
and (h) minimum on-site parking requirement of two off-street parking spaces plus one 
additional off-street parking space for each 10 beds and one additional parking space per each 
employee on site.
SECTION 7: Section 27.04.222 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 27.04 as 
follows:
27.04.222
GROUP HOME
“Group home” means a one-family dwelling providing 24-hour residential care for a 
wide variety of persons with special needs, including but not limited to licensed group homes, 
unlicensed group homes, and recovery residences or sober living homes. Residents may share 
cooking, dining, and living areas, and may, in some group homes, participate in cooking, 
housekeeping, and other communal living activities.
SECTION 8. Section 27.04.250 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed. 
SECTION 9. Section 27.04.306 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 27.04 as 
follows:
27.04.306
LOW-BARRIER NAVIGATION CENTER
“Low-barrier navigation center” means a temporary shelter that provides services for 
individuals experiencing homelessness, as defined by California Government Code Section 
65660 . Low-barrier navigation centers are subject to the following: (a) It offers services to 
connect people to permanent housing through a services plan that identifies services staffing; 
(b) It is linked to a coordinated entry system, so that staff in the interim facility or staff who 
co-locate in the facility may conduct assessments and provide services to connect people to 
permanent housing. “Coordinated entry system” means a centralized or coordinated 
assessment system developed pursuant to Section 576.400(d) or Section 578.7(a)(8), as

--- page 13 ---
applicable, of Title 24 of the Code of Federal Regulations, as those sections read on January 1, 
2020, and any related requirements, designed to coordinate program participant intake, 
assessment, and referrals; (c) It complies with Welfare and Institutions Code Section 8255 et 
seq; and (d) It has a system for entering information regarding client stays, client 
demographics, client income, and exit destination through the local Homeless Management 
Information System, as defined by Section 578.3 of Title 24 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
SECTION 10. Section 27.04.308 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 27.04 as 
follows:
27.04.308
MANUFACTURED HOME
(a) "Manufactured home" shall mean a structure, transportable in one or more 
sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width, or forty (40) feet or 
more in length, or when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a 
permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling installed on a permanent foundation 
when connected to the required utilities, and the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and 
electrical systems are contained within the structure. "Manufactured home" shall also include 
any structure which meets all the requirements of this subsection except the size 
requirements and to which the manufacturer voluntarily has filed a certification and complies 
with the standards established by the Health and Safety Code. "Manufactured home" shall 
also include a mobilehome subject to the National Manufactured Housing Construction and 
Safety Act of 1974. "Manufactured home" shall include only those structures that contain two 
or less dwelling units, and that conform to the applicable requirements of the laws of the 
State of California or United States.
SECTION 11. Section 27.04.313.1 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 27.04 
as follows:
7.04.313.1
MOBILEHOME PARK
“Mobilehome park” means any area or tract of land where two or more lots are rented 
or leased, held out for rent or lease, or were formerly held out for rent or lease and later 
converted to a subdivision, cooperative, condominium, or other form of resident ownership, 
to accommodate manufactured homes, mobilehomes, or recreational vehicles used for 
human habitation as defined in Section 18214 of the Health and Safety Code, as amended 
from time to time. The rent paid for a manufactured home, a mobilehome, or a recreational 
vehicle shall be deemed to include rent for the lot it occupies. “Mobilehome park” also means 
a mobilehome development constructed according to the requirements of Part 2.1 
(commencing with Section 18200) of Division 13 of the Health and Safety Code, and intended 
for use and sale as a mobilehome condominium or cooperative park, or as a mobilehome 
planned unit development.

--- page 14 ---
SECTION 12. Section 27.04.203 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 27.04 as 
follows:
27.04.203
FOUNDATION
“Permanent foundation" shall mean assembly of materials constructed below, or partially 
below grade, not intended to be removed from its installation site, which is designed to 
support a manufactured home structure and engineered to resist the imposition of external 
natural forces, as defined by the Health and Safety Code or the Building Code, whichever is 
more restrictive.
SECTION 13. Section 27.04.467 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 27.04 as 
follows:
27.04.467
SUPPORTIVE HOUSING
(a) “Supportive Housing” means housing with no limit on length of stay, that is 
occupied by the target population, and that is linked to onsite or offsite services that assist the 
supportive housing resident in retaining the housing, improving their health status, and 
maximizing their ability to live and, when possible, work in the community. Supportive 
housing shall only be subject to those restrictions that apply to other residential dwellings of 
the same type in the same zone
(b) “Target Population” means persons, including persons with disabilities, and 
families who are “homeless,” as that term is defined by Section 11302 of Title 42 of the United 
States Code, or who are “homeless youth,” as that term is defined by paragraph (2) of 
subdivision (e) of Section 12957 of the Government Code as may be amended from time to 
time.
SECTION 14. Section 27.04.486 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 27.04 as 
follows:
27.04.486
 TRANSITIONAL HOUSING
“Transitional housing” and “transitional housing development” means buildings 
configured as rental housing developments, but operated under program requirements that 
call for the termination of assistance and recirculation of the assisted unit to another eligible 
program recipient at some predetermined future point in time, which shall be no less than six 
months. Transitional housing shall only be subject to those restrictions that apply to other 
residential dwellings of the same type in the same zone.
SECTION 15. Section 27.06.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.06.020 
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR - POWERS AND DUTIES.

--- page 15 ---
The Zoning Administrator shall enforce the provisions of this Title, and shall:
(h)
Have the authority to review and approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the 
following types of projects, provided that the projects do not result in any significant impacts 
pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), subject to public notice and to 
appeal of the final action to the Planning Commission:
(1)
Site plan and architectural review for projects that incorporate:
(A)
Up to fifty (50) residential dwelling units that meet objective design standards as 
adopted by resolution of the City Council; or
SECTION 16.  Section 27.06.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.06.040 
PLANNING COMMISSION—JURISDICTION.
(a) The Commission shall review and take final action, subject to appeal to the Council, upon 
all applications for:
(3) Site Plan and Architectural Review for projects that incorporate:
(1)
Site plan and architectural review for projects that incorporate:
 
(A)  
Fifty-one (51) or more residential dwelling units that meet objective design standards as 
adopted by resolution of the City Council; or
SECTION 17. Chapter 27.17 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed. 
SECTION 18. Section 27.18.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.18.020
PERMITTED USES.
The following uses are permitted:
(a) One-family detached dwellings, including manufactured homes on permanent foundations;
(b) Accessory dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling units subject to the provisions of 
Chapter 27.19;
(c) Accessory uses and structures;
(d) Detached accessory structures containing no more than two (2) plumbing fixtures or waste 
lines;
(e) Home occupations, subject to provisions of Section 27.16.040;

--- page 16 ---
(f) Community care facilities as follows:
(1) Unlicensed group homes subject to the objective development standards that apply 
to other residential uses of the same type in the same zone;
(2) Licensed residential care facilities including group homes with six (6) or fewer 
residents, in addition to the caregiver's family, subject to the objective development standards 
that apply to other residential uses of the same type in the same zone. Certain licensed group 
homes shall be subject to separation requirements pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section 
1267.9, as amended from time to time; and
(3) Family day care for fourteen (14) or fewer occupants, in addition to the caregiver's 
family, when managed in the caregiver's residence and in accordance with State law.
(g) Temporary buildings for construction purposes for a period not to exceed the duration of 
such construction;
(h) Transitional housing and supportive housing subject to the objective development 
standards that apply to other residential uses of the same type in the same zone.
SECTION 19. Section 27.18.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.18.030
SPECIAL USES.
The following uses may also be allowed if a special use permit is approved:
(a) Detached accessory structures, other than accessory dwelling units, containing 
more than two (2) plumbing fixtures or waste lines;
(b) Swimming pools, hot tubs and spas located in required front yard or street side 
yard;
(c) Cemeteries, mausoleums, and columbaria, subject to the provisions of the Section 
27.18.120;
(d) Churches, convents, parish houses, and monasteries, including as a permitted 
accessory use emergency shelters subject to the requirements in a residential zone;
(e) Community services including but not limited to libraries, parks, playgrounds, and 
community centers;
(f) Group homes that provide licensed services to seven (7) or more residents 
without disabilities, in addition to the caregiver's family, subject to the objective 
development standards that apply to other residential uses of the same type in the same

--- page 17 ---
zone. Certain licensed group homes shall be subject to separation requirements pursuant to 
Health and Safety Code Section 1267.9;
(g) Public and private educational facilities;
(h) Day care centers when located within a public or quasi-public structure such as a 
school, recreation center, church, temple or similar facility;
(i) Philanthropic and eleemosynary uses;
(j) Public utility facilities; and
(k) Temporary real estate sales offices for a period not to exceed the duration of the 
construction and sale of homes within the subdivision wherein the sales office is to be 
located.
SECTION 20. Section 27.20.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.20.010
PERMITTED USES.
No building or land in the R2 district shall be used and no building shall be hereafter 
erected, structurally altered or enlarged, unless otherwise provided in this title, except for 
the following:
(a) Any use permitted in the R1 districts, subject to the same regulations and 
exceptions;
(b) Two family dwellings;
(c) Accessory uses which are necessary to the above-mentioned buildings and uses.
SECTION 21. Section 27.20.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.20.020
SPECIAL USES.
(a) Special uses in the R2 districts shall be any special uses permitted in the R1 
district, subject to the same regulations and exceptions;
(b) Mobilehome parks.
SECTION 22. Section 27.22.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.22.010
PERMITTED USES.
Use of buildings or land in this district and buildings hereafter erected, structurally 
altered or enlarged, shall be limited to the following:

--- page 18 ---
(a) Any use permitted in the R1 and R2 districts;
(b) Multiple family dwellings, as defined in this title;
(c) One family row dwellings, as defined in this title;
(d) Supportive housing in compliance with Government Code Sections 65650 - 65656, 
shall be considered a use by-right use. “Use by right” shall have the same meaning as defined 
in Government Code Section 65583.2(i).  Supportive housing shall also be in compliance with 
Section 27.94.020 By-Right Residential Use Requirements and subject only to those objective 
development standards and policies that apply to other multifamily development within the 
same zone.
(e) Accessory uses which are necessary to the above-mentioned buildings and uses.
SECTION 23. Section 27.22.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.22.020
SPECIAL USES.
Unless otherwise provided, the following uses may be allowed if a special use permit 
is approved:
(f) Any special use permitted in the R1 and R2 districts;
(g) Bed and breakfast inns;
(h) Boarding and lodging houses with a five (5) resident limitation;
(i) Residential care facility (excluding group homes)  with seven (7) or more residents 
in addition to the caregiver. Certain licensed care facilities shall be subject to separation 
requirements pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section 1267.9;
(j) Day care centers.
SECTION 24. Section 27.24.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.24.010
PERMITTED USES.
Use of buildings or land in this district and buildings hereafter erected, structurally 
altered or enlarged, shall be limited to the following:
(a) Any use permitted in the R1, R2, or R3 districts;
(b) Single Room Occupancy Units;
(c) Accessory uses which are necessary to the above-mentioned buildings and uses.

--- page 19 ---
SECTION 25. Chapter 27.27 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is repealed.
SECTION 26. Section 27.30.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.30.010
PERMITTED USES.
The following uses are permitted provided that the use limitations contained in 
Section 27.30.025, "Permitted and special uses—Twenty-Fifth Avenue Improvement Area," 
shall apply to properties in the Twenty-Fifth Avenue Improvement Area and the use 
limitations contained in Section 27.30.027, "Permitted and special uses—Hillsdale Station Area 
Plan Active Zone," shall apply to properties in the Hillsdale Station Area Plan Active Zone:
(a) Animal grooming, provided no overnight boarding occurs on the site;
(b) Bakeries;
(c) Barber shops and hair salons;
(d) Delicatessens;
(e) Dry cleaners, with customer service areas;
(f) Financial institutions, provided the ground floor area devoted to this use does not 
exceed 2,500 square feet per establishment;
(g) Health studios and spas;
(h) Laundromats;
(i) Libraries;
(j) Low Barrier Navigation Center above the ground floor in compliance with 
Government Code Sections 65660-65668 shall be considered a use by-right. “Use by right” 
shall have the same meaning as defined in subdivision (i) of Section 65583.2.  Supportive 
housing shall also be in compliance with Section 27.94.020 By-Right Residential Use 
Requirements and subject only to those objective development standards and policies that 
apply to other multifamily development within the same zone. Newspaper publishing;
(k) Offices, provided the ground floor area devoted to this use does not exceed 2,500 
square feet per establishment;
(l) Photo processing;
(m) Picture framing;
(n) Real estate establishments;

--- page 20 ---
(o) Residential units above the ground floor, subject to R3 district "Minimum 
Development Standards" in Section 27.22.040 and affordable housing requirements as 
adopted by City Council resolution, unless otherwise specified in Chapter 27.29; 
(p) Restaurants and accessory outdoor dining areas, without drive-through facilities;
(q) Retail uses, such as, but not limited to, the following uses, subject to a maximum of 
15,000 square feet of floor area per establishment except for supermarkets and drug stores:
(1) Antique shops,
(2) Apparel sales, tailoring and repair stores,
(3) Drug stores,
(4) Hardware and garden supply stores,
(5) Household furnishings,
(6) Pet shops,
(7) Supermarkets and grocery stores;
(r) Reverse vending machines, subject to regulations established in Chapter 27.69;
(s) Schools and day care facilities;
(t) Travel agencies;
(u) Accessory uses to principle uses permitted; and
(v) Other compatible uses as determined by the zoning administrator.
SECTION 27. Section 27.30.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.30.020
SPECIAL USES.
The following uses may also be permitted subject to approval of a special use permit, 
provided that the use limitations contained in Section 27.30.025, "Permitted and special 
uses—Twenty-Fifth Avenue Improvement Area," shall apply to properties in the Twenty-Fifth 
Avenue improvement Area and the use limitations contained in Section 27.30.027, "Permitted 
and special uses—Hillsdale Station Area Plan Active Zone," shall apply to properties in the 
Hillsdale Station Area Plan Active Zone:
(a) Accessory buildings containing plumbing;

--- page 21 ---
(b) Alternative financial services subject to the following requirements:
(1) A maximum of four alternative financial services may be located in the City of San 
Mateo.
(2) No alternative financial service may be located within a radius of 1,000 feet from 
the nearest existing alternative financial service.
(3) Any alternative financial service seeking to begin operations after the effective 
date of the ordinance codified in this section shall meet the following minimum standards of 
performance, which shall be included as conditions of approval for such uses:
(A) A lighting plan shall be reviewed and approved by the Police Department and the 
Building Division for conformance with the City's security ordinance prior to the issuance of 
building permits.
(B) Storefronts shall have glass or transparent glazing in the windows and doors. No 
more than 10% of any window or door area shall be covered by signs, banners, or opaque 
coverings of any kind.
(C) Hours of operation shall be limited to 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
(D) At least one uniformed security guard will be on duty at all times the business is 
open. The security guard shall patrol the interior and all exterior portions of the property 
under the control of the owner or operator of the alternative financial service, including, but 
not limited to, parking lots and any open public spaces such as lobbies.
(c) Automobile gasoline service stations;
(d) Boarding, lodging, or rooming houses;
(e) Community care facilities serving seven or more persons in addition to the 
caregiver. Certain licensed care facilities shall be subject to separation requirements pursuant 
to Health and Safety Code Section 1267.9 ;
(f) Convalescent homes, rest homes, nursing homes, limited to the housing of not 
more than six persons in addition to the owner or manager, and family;
(g) Drive-through facilities for financial institutions and for pharmacies dispensing only 
prescriptions or medicinal goods at the drive-through facility. Drive-through facilities for 
pharmacies shall be subject to the parking requirements for financial institution drive-through 
uses, as enumerated in Section 27.64.160(7)(a).
(h) Fast food establishments without drive-through facilities;

--- page 22 ---
(i) Financial institutions, exceeding 2,500 square feet of ground floor area per 
establishment up to a maximum of 15,000 square feet of floor area;
(j) Offices exceeding 2,500 square feet of ground floor area per establishment up to a 
maximum of 15,000 square feet of floor area;
(k) Parking facilities, as a principal use;
(l) Public utility and public service uses;
(m) Recreational vehicle storage, subject to regulations established in Section 
27.64.267, and only on those parcels designated for such use in Section 27.60.180;
(n) Recycling facilities subject to regulations established in Chapter 27.69;
(o) Religious institutions;
(p) Businesses selling or renting firearms as defined by Penal Code Section 12001(b); 
and
(q) Other compatible uses as determined by the zoning administrator subject to the 
granting of a special use permit.
SECTION 28. Section 27.32.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.32.010
PERMITTED USES.
The following uses are permitted:
(a) Permitted uses in the C1 district;
(b) Art galleries;
(c) Automotive accessory stores, excluding on-site service and repair of vehicles;
(d) Boarding, lodging, or rooming houses;
(e) Catering services;
(f) Hotels and motels, including restaurant and meeting rooms;
(g) Laundries;
(h) Medical and dental clinics, including laboratories;
(i) Offices;

--- page 23 ---
(j) Parking facilities;
(k) Printing, lithographing, or publishing establishments for newspaper, business 
cards, and other similar uses;
(l) Radio and television broadcasting stations;
(m) Reproduction services;
(n) Residential units, subject to R4 district "Minimum Development Standards" in 
Section 27.24.040 and affordable housing requirements as adopted by City Council resolution, 
except as otherwise specified in Chapter 27.29;
(o) Retail uses, including incidental rental and repair;
(p) Emergency Shelters ;
(q) Accessory uses to principle uses permitted; and
(r) Other compatible uses as determined by the zoning administrator.
SECTION 29. Section 27.32.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.32.020
SPECIAL USES.
The following uses may also be permitted, subject to approval of a special use 
permit:
(a) Special uses permitted in the residential and C1 districts, except increases in floor 
area ratios;
(b) Clubs, lodges, and fraternal organizations;
(c) Commercial recreation uses;
(d) Hospitals;
(e) Mortuaries;
(f) Public transportation facilities and terminals;
and other similar uses;
(g) Recreational vehicle storage, subject to the provisions of Section 27.64.267 of this 
Title;

--- page 24 ---
(h) Theaters, excluding drive-in theaters; and
(i) Other compatible uses as determined by the zoning administrator subject to the 
granting of a special permit.
SECTION 30. Section 27.34.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.34.010
PERMITTED USES.
The following uses are permitted:
(a) Permitted uses in the C1 and C2 districts provided that residential uses are subject 
to R4 district "Minimum Development Standards" in Chapter 27.24 and affordable housing 
requirements as adopted by City Council resolution, except as otherwise specified in Chapter 
27.29;
(b) Ambulance service;
(c) Automobile, boat, and truck sales and rental, including service and repair as 
accessory to the primary sales use, sales may occur on open lot;
(d) Automobile service, parts, and repairs, classified as minor motor vehicle repair in 
Section 27.04.325;
(e) Car wash and detailing facilities, may not occur on open lot;
(f) Laboratories, research, experimental, and testing, provided no production or 
manufacturing of products occurs on the premises;
(g) Accessory uses to principle uses permitted; and
(h) Other compatible uses as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
SECTION 31. Section 27.36.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.36.010
PERMITTED USES.
The following uses are permitted:
(a) Permitted uses in the C1, C2, and C3 districts, except that residential uses, low 
barrier navigation centers, office uses on the properties along Palm Avenue between 
Twentieth and Twenty-fifth Avenues, and emergency shelters are prohibited;
SECTION 32. Section 27.38.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:

--- page 25 ---
27.38.020
PERMITTED USES.
Unless otherwise provided in this title, uses of building or land in this district and 
buildings hereafter erected, structurally altered or enlarged shall be limited to the following 
uses:
(a) Any use permitted in the C2 District, except an animal hospital and emergency 
shelters; provided that the use limitations contained in Section 27.38.110, Required Retail 
Frontage, shall apply to properties located within the required retail frontage area, as shown 
in the Downtown Plan.
(b) Multiple-family dwellings, when part of a mixed use development, subject to CBD 
residential development standards and affordable housing requirements as adopted by City 
Council resolution; 
(c) Name plates and signs, as classified and regulated in Title 25.
SECTION 33. Section 27.44.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.44.020
PERMITTED USES.
The following uses shall be permitted:
(a) Administrative, executive, and professional offices, provided that the professional 
offices are limited to those professions listed in Section 5.24.160, and including similar 
professional occupations, and provided that no office of a veterinarian shall include an 
animal hospital or kennel.
(b) Accessory uses; including, but not limited to:
(1) Sale of personal goods and services, when provided in the principal building, 
including, but not limited to, the following:
(A) Flower, food, and news vending;
(B) Printing and photocopying;
(C) Travel agencies;
(D) Ticket outlets;
(2) Other services which are customary appurtenant uses.
(c) Health and recreation facilities.
(d) Public utility and service uses.

--- page 26 ---
(e) Financial and business offices and related facilities.
(f) Research laboratories (experimental and testing), provided no production or 
manufacturing occurs, and provided that all activities conform with the performance 
standards established for the M1 district.
(g) Residential units, subject to R3 district "Minimum Development Standards" in 
Section 27.22.040 and affordable housing requirements as adopted by City Council 
resolution, unless otherwise specified in Chapter 27.29.
(h) Restaurants without drive-through facilities.
(i) Schools and day care facilities.
(j) Warehousing, storage, and distribution facilities as accessory uses but not 
exceeding 10,000 square feet per establishment or not more than 60% of gross floor area per 
establishment.
(k) Other compatible uses as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
SECTION 34. Section 27.44.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.44.030
SPECIAL USES.
The following uses may also be permitted subject to approval of a special use permit:
(a) Alternative financial services, subject to the restrictions set forth in Section 
27.30.020;
(b) Automobile gasoline service station;
(c) Clubs, lodges, and fraternal organizations;
(d) Hotels;
(e) Parking facilities, as a principle use;
(f) Religious institutions; and
(g) Other compatible uses as determined by the Zoning Administrator subject to the 
granting of a special use permit.
SECTION 35. Section 27.48.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.48.020
PERMITTED USES.

--- page 27 ---
The following uses are permitted:
(a) Permitted uses in the E1 district;
SECTION 36. Section 27.48.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.48.030
SPECIAL USES.
Reserved.  
SECTION 37. Section 27.60.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 27.60 as 
follows:
27.060.020
DEFINITIONS
The following definitions apply to this chapter.
(a) “Farmworker housing” means an agricultural employee housing development that 
satisfies all of the following:
(1) The agricultural employee housing does not contain dormitory-style housing
(2) The development consists of no more than 36 units or spaces designed for use by a 
single family or household.
(3) Except as otherwise provided in subparagraph (2), the agricultural employee 
housing will be maintained and operated by a qualified affordable housing organization that 
has been certified pursuant to Government Code Section 17030.10 or operated by a local 
public housing agency or a multicounty, state, or multistate agency that has been certified as a 
qualified affordable housing organization
(4) An affordability covenant is recorded on the property to ensure the affordability of 
the proposed agricultural employee housing for agricultural employees for not less than 55 
years. 
SECTION 38. Section 27.60.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.60.030
PERMITTED USES.
Permitted uses shall be as follows:
(a) All uses commonly classed as agriculture, horticulture or forestry, including crop 
and tree farming, and nursery operation.

--- page 28 ---
(b) Horse racetracks and related uses, including, but not limited to, veterinary 
facilities, feed storage facilities, stables, offices, restaurants, sleeping quarters, plant nurseries 
and equipment storage facilities.
(c) One-family detached dwelling and accessory buildings provided the property (or 
zoning plot) upon which the dwelling is located has as its principal use one of the agricultural 
uses permitted above. 
(d) Accessory dwelling units, when a primary dwelling is located on the site.
(e) Parks, forest preserves and recreational areas, when publicly owned and operated.
(f) Golf courses, regulation size, but not including "par 3" golf courses, commercially 
operated driving ranges or miniature golf courses; and provided, that no clubhouse or 
accessory building shall be located nearer than five feet to any dwelling.
(g) Signs, advertising the sale or rental of the property upon which the sign is located.
(h) Public utility facilities.
(i) Farmworker housing consisting of no more than 36 beds in group quarters or 12 
units or spaces designed for use by a single family or household. 
SECTION 39. Section 27.60.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.60.040
SPECIAL USES.
The following uses may also be permitted if their site locations and proposed 
development plans are first approved, as provided for in Chapters 27.06 through 27.12, 27.62, 
27.74, 27.78 and 27.80:
(a) Mining, dredging, loading, and hauling of sand, shells, salt, dirt, gravel or other 
aggregate, but not including equipment, buildings or structures for screening, refining, 
crushing, mixing, washing or storage.
(b) Railroad Rights-of-Way and Trackage. Airports or aircraft landing fields. Radio and 
television towers, commercial.
(c) Filling of lowland with noncombustible material free from refuse and food wastes.
(d) Sanitary land fill, when operated or supervised by the City.
(e) Kennels, commercial, and animal hospitals.
(f) Public service uses:

--- page 29 ---
(g) Filtration plant, pumping station, and water reservoir;
(h) Sewage treatment plant;
(i) Other governmental uses.
(j) Temporary farmworker housing consisting of more than 36 beds in group quarters 
or more than 12 units or spaces designed for use by a single family or household.
SECTION 40. Section 27.60.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.60.050
CONDITIONS OF USE.
No horses, cattle, or other domestic animals shall be bred, raised, or maintained 
within 500 feet of any residential district as established in this zoning title.
SECTION 41. Section 27.60.090 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows
27.60.090
SPECIAL USES.
The following uses may also be allowed if a special use permit is approved:
(a) Detached accessory structures, containing more than two plumbing fixtures or 
waste lines;
(b) Swimming pools, hot tubs and spas located in required front yard or street side 
yard;
(c) Cemeteries and mausoleums;
(d) Churches, convents, parish houses, and monasteries;
(e) Community services, including, but not limited to, libraries, parks, playgrounds, 
and community centers;
(f) Public and private educational facilities;
(g) Day care centers serving more than six persons or family day care centers serving 
more than 14 children;
(h) Philanthropic and eleemosynary uses;
(i) Public utility facilities; and
(j) Temporary real estate sales offices for a period not to exceed the duration of the 
construction and sale of homes within the subdivision wherein the sales office is to be 
located.

--- page 30 ---
SECTION 42. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines Section 15183, the zoning amendment to establish a by-right 
residential overlay district and reclassify parcels with the overlay district (“project”) is exempt 
from further environmental review because the Project which generally allows for more 
housing types to be permitted uses in specific zoning districts and remove regulatory barriers 
from the zoning code is consistent with the anticipated land uses under the land use  
designations for the sites adopted as part of the General Plan 2040 for which an EIR was 
certified by the City Council on March 18, 2024.  Also, there are no specific proposed changes 
to residential development densities and is consistent with the development density 
established by the General Plan.  The Project is also consistent with the implementation 
policies of the adopted and certified Housing Element and pursuant to certain mandates in 
state law.  There are no project specific effects that are peculiar to the project or the sites; 
there are no project specific impacts that the General Plan Update EIR failed to analyze as 
significant effects; there are no potentially significant off-site and cumulative impacts that the 
general plan EIR failed to evaluate; and there is no substantial new information which results 
in more severe impacts than anticipated by the general plan EIR
SECTION 43. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall 
be determined invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed 
severable and all other sections or portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
SECTION 44. Publication. This ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of 
general circulation, posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in 
accord with Section 2.15 of the City Charter.
SECTION 45. Legislative History And Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to 
complete., and adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its 
adoption.

--- page 31 ---
1
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE 
AMENDING THE SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE TO IMPLEMENT MEASURE T 
WHEREAS, on November 5, 2024, the voters of the City of San Mateo approved 
Measure T by a vote of 59% (25,271 votes) to 41% (17,283 votes), and on December 9, 2024, 
the City Council certified the election results.  Measure T officially became effective on 
December 19, 2024, as Ordinance No. 2024-10; and 
WHEREAS, the Housing Element plans for a total of 10,286 units, over and above the 
RHNA allocation of 7,015 units for the eight-year planning period of 2023-2031, and the City’s 
adopted and certified Housing Element does so by allocating these units across the “Sites 
Inventory” in the Housing Element; and
WHEREAS, the approval of Measure T increases the capacity of the Sites Inventory in 
the Housing Element from 10,286 units to approximately 20,000 units; and
WHEREAS, beyond the Sites Inventory, Measure T expands the development capacity 
within the City by approximately an additional 10,000 units, for an approximate total of over 
30,000 units of housing; and 
WHEREAS, Measure T adds new sites upon which residential development will be 
allowed, and substantially increases capacity for numerous sites listed in General Plan 2040; 
and 
WHEREAS, the effect of Measure T is to substantially enhance the City’s ability to 
ensure a continuous availability of adequate sites to meet and exceed RHNA goals throughout 
the Housing Element planning period, including at the very low, low and moderate income 
levels, within the meaning of Government Code section 65863.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS 
FOLLOWS:
Section 1.  Zoning Text Amendment.  Chapter 27.02 of Title 27 of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code is hereby amended to revise Section 27.02.170, as follows:
27.02.170 – Consistency with General Plan.
In their review of planning applications, each approval body involved shall consider 
whether the planning application is in conformance with the San Mateo City General Plan. 
Section 2.  Zoning Text Amendment.  Chapter 27.02 of Title 27 of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code is hereby amended to revise Section 27.02.220, as follows:
Section 27.02.220 – Consistency With Measure T, General Plan Ballot 
Measure (November 2024 Election).

--- page 32 ---
2
The provisions of Ordinance No. 2024-10, approved by the voters on November 5, 2024, 
as Measure T, and effective on December 19, 2024, allows for the full implementation of the 
Land Use Element in General Plan 2040. In case of conflict or inconsistency between Title 27 of 
the Municipal Code (Zoning Code) and the General Plan 2040, the uses, densities, intensities 
and heights specified in Table LU-1 (Land Use Designations) in the Land Use Element and 
associated with the Land Use Map shall control.
Section 3. CEQA Findings. The City Council finds that adoption of this Ordinance is 
exempt from CEQA because,  pursuant to CEQA Guidelines section 15061(b)(3), the so-called 
“common sense” exemption, there is no possibility that the Ordinance will have an effect on the 
physical environment, in that it incorporates into the Zoning Code the uses, densities, 
intensities, and heights already adopted by the voters of the City. In addition, any impacts of the 
Ordinance were reviewed in the Environmental Impact Report prepared on General Plan 2040, 
and no changes have been made   in the uses, densities, intensities, and heights included in 
General Plan 2040 and incorporated into the Ordinance, nor has any substantial evidence been 
presented by substantial changes with respect to the circumstances under which the changes 
are to be undertaken, nor has any new information of substantial importance been identified.  
[Revise later]
Section 4. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion 
of this Ordinance or its application to any person or circumstance is held to be invalid or 
unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not 
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Ordinance or its application to other persons 
and circumstances. The City Council declares that it would have adopted this Ordinance and 
each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion thereof despite the fact that any 
one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions be declared invalid 
or unconstitutional and, to that end, the provisions hereof are hereby declared to be severable.
Section 5. Publication. This ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper 
of general circulation, posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in 
accord with Section 2.15 of the City Charter.
Section 6. Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on [Clerk to complete] and 
adopted on [Clerk to complete] and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.

--- page 33 ---
Summary of Housing Element Implimentation Actions and Zoning Code Amendments
Policy 
Number
Policy Description
Program Measure(s)
Implementation Action(s)
Staff Recommendation
Summary/Discussion of Proposed Code Modifications
Policy 
H1.3
Increase Affordable 
Housing Production
Update the City’s Inclusionary Housing 
requirements for ownership and rental 
residential developments to allow for 
alternative compliance options other than 
on-site construction and to establish an 
updated Density Bonus/Community 
Benefits program that incentivizes 
production of additional affordable units.
a)  Amend the Affordable Housing Ordinance (SMMC Chapter 
27.16.050) and Inclusionary Housing Policy to allow for 
alternative compliance options to onsite inclusionary unit 
development within one year of Housing Element adoption.
Future Study Session
This item will be brought to Planning Commission with a comprehensive update to the City's Inclusionary Housing Policy in 2025.
Policy
H1.6
Streamline Housing 
Application Review
Reduce the development review timeline 
for housing projects by streamlining the 
development review process and 
simplifying design review and submittal 
requirements.
b) Amend the Zoning Code to allow residential projects with 
up to 25 units to be approved administratively.
d)  Develop Zoning Code amendments to align City 
requirements with SB 330 and make a recommendation to the 
City Council.
Staff recommendation
Staff recommendation 
based on State Law 
Staff also recommends modifying the Powers and Duties of the Zoning Administrator (ZA) (Section 27.06.020(h)(1)(A) to review and take final action on  
proposed residential development projects that are consistent with objective design standards by increasing the project size threshold from 25 to 50 units 
and similarly the Planning Commission Jurisdiction's (Section 27.06.040(a)(3)(A) approval authority for residential development projects that meet 
objective design standards from 26 to 51 units . This recommendation is in response to Council's November 20, 2023 request for staff to investigate the 
possibility of increasing the ZA's authority further, after increasing the unit threshold from six to 25 units to streamline approval processes. Please see 
additional information contained in the agenda report.
It is anticipated that work efforts under the comprehensive zoning code update will inform potential zoning code amendments that will be introduced at a 
future Planning Commission meeting.
Policy 
H1.7
Update Zoning Code 
Standards to Support 
Housing Production
Update Zoning Code development standards 
that apply to multi-family residential projects 
to reduce or eliminate constraints, 
incentivize production of additional housing 
units and support development of a variety of 
housing types. 
a)   Evaluate the standards and requirements in all zone 
districts that allow for multi-family residential and amend the 
Zoning Code as needed to reduce or eliminate constraints to 
housing construction.  Specifically: 1) exclude covered parking 
and other elements as needed from Floor Area Ratio (FAR) 
calculation for housing projects with affordable units, 2) 
specify where Single-Room Occupancy (SRO) units are 
permitted consistent with government Code 65583(c)(1), and 
3) specify that Manufactured Homes that are built on a 
permanent foundation are subject to the same zoning 
requirements and development standards as single-family 
homes.
Future Study Session
Staff recommendation 
based on State Law 
Staff recommendation 
implementing action 
item.
1) Parking Standards and FAR - The City was awarded a grant from the Metropolitan Transportation Commission's (MTC) Transit-Oriented Communities & 
Climate Program Implementation Grant (TOC Grant) to evaluate the City's parking programs and development standards. Additionally, as part of the 
comprehensive zoning code update the City will extensively evaluate parking and development standards as it relates to housing development projects. It is 
anticipated that work efforts under the grant program and comprehensive zoning code update will inform potential zoning code amendments that will be 
introduced at a future Planning Commission meeting.
2) Single-Room Occupancy (SROs) - The current zoning code doesn't have a definition for SRO. Staff researched for a State defintion for SRO, but did not find a 
formal defintion under State Law. A SRO definition is proposed under Section 27.04.165 DWELLING that is similar to other jurisdictions, such as the City of 
Burbank. The term hotel, apartment (Section 27.04.250) was removed and added to definition of SRO. 
Government Code Section 65583(c)(1) states that the City needs to affirmatively further fair housing and to facilitate and encourage the development of a 
variety of types of housing for all income levels, including single-room occupancy units. To those ends, staff recommends SROs as a permitted use in the R4 
District (Section 27.24.010 Permitted Uses) which is also enumerated in R5, R6, and Downtown (CDB) Districts with R overlays. These zoning districts are the 
areas with higher allowable densities and are limited to areas along public transit routes and in close proximity to public services that serves lower income 
households that typically would live in SROs.
3) Manufactured Homes - Chapter 27.17 contains provisions in the current zoning code regarding the regulations of manufactured homes. Since this 
implementation action simplifies the development standards for manufactured homes to be the same as single-family residences, Chapter 27.17 is proposed 
to be eliminated. The definition of Manufactured home is proposed to be transferred to Section 27.04.308 of the Definitions chapter. This recommendation has 
also been reviewed by the Chief Building Official. Staff also recommends modifications to Section 27.18.020 Permitted Uses (R1 District) to allow 
manufactured homes on permanent foundations subject to the same development standards as similar type of housing in the zoning district.
Staff recommendation 
implementing action 
item.
In addition to the specific implementation actions, staff recommends changes to various sections of the zoning code to eliminate the prohibition of secondary 
units (i.e., accessory dwelling units) or requirements for a special use permit consistent with state law. Also, all reference to the term "secondary unit" were 
updated  to "accessory dwelling unit" throughout zoning code. 
b)  Amend the Zoning Code to reduce off-street parking 
requirements for residential units (SMMC Chapter 27.64) as 
follows:  Studio and 1 Bedroom units to 1 space, 2 Bedrooms 
and above to 1.5 spaces; and for projects within ½ mile of 
transit, consistent with AB2097, no off-street parking shall be 
required. As part of this amendment, staff will review all other 
parking related requirements and make recommendations to 
reduce or eliminate any other parking related requirements 
identified as a constraint. 
Future Study Session
State Law
The City was awarded a grant from the Metropolitan Transportation Commission's (MTC) Transit-Oriented Communities & Climate Program Implementation 
Grant (TOC Grant) to evaluate the City's parking programs and development standards as part of this project and additionally as part of the comprehensive 
zoning code update. It is anticipated that work efforts under that grant program will inform potential zoning code amendments that will be introduced at a future 
Planning Commission meeting. Regardless of existing code requirements, staff has implemented the parking provisions under AB 2097 through the review of 
Planning Applications and have not required off-street parking for projects within 1/2 mile of the Caltain stops, consistent with the City's AB 2097 
implementation policy. 
Staff aniticipates modifications to the City's AB 2097 implementation policy consistent with SB 2553, further eliminating parking requirements within 1/2 mile 
of all transit stops with service every 20 minutes.

--- page 34 ---
Summary of Housing Element Implimentation Actions and Zoning Code Amendments
Policy 
Number
Policy Description
Program Measure(s)
Implementation Action(s)
Staff Recommendation
Summary/Discussion of Proposed Code Modifications
c)  Amend the Zoning Code to make residential uses, which 
currently require a special use permit, a permitted use in the 
C1, C2, C3, E1 and E2 districts for non-R Overlay areas.
Staff recommendation 
implementing action 
item.
The following sections of the zoning code were revised to complete this implementation action adding residential uses as a permitted use and removing 
residential uses requiring a special use permit in each zoning district :
C1 District - Sections 27.30.010 & 27.30.020
C2 District - Sections 27.32.010 & 27.32.020
C3 District - Sections 27.34.010 & 27.34.020
E1 District - Sections 27.44.020 & 27.44.030
E2 District - Sections 27.48.020 & 27.48.030
N/A - This amendment is not specified as an Implementation 
Action item, but increases housing production consistent with 
this policy.
Staff recommendation 
implementing action 
item.
Staff recommends modifying Sections 27.02.170 and 27.02.220 to be consistent with General Plan Ballot Measure T, approved by the voters on November 5, 
2024. The proposed language updates existing sections of the zoning code relating to implementation of Measure T and general plan consistency. The revisions 
incorporate uses, densities, intensities, and heights specified in Land Use Element of the General Plan 2040 where the existing zoning code may conflict with, 
which is also in conformance with state law (Government Code Sections 65589.5 and 65860). 
a)  Review and amend the Zoning Code to allow group homes 
and residential care facilities for persons with special needs, 
including those who are ELI,  in all residential zones, only 
subject to those objective standards that apply to other 
residential uses of the same type in the same zone in 
conformance with state law. 
Staff recommendation
based on State Law
City staff consulted with Diana Elrod (Diana Elrod Consulting) and determined to add or modify the following zoning code sections as described below. These 
modifications are also in conformance with the Group Home Technical Advisory, CA Dept of Housing and Community Development (December 2022,  
https://www.hcd.ca.gov/sites/default/files/docs/planning-and-community/group-home-technical-advisory-2022.pdf): 
-Modification to Section 27.04.130 Community Care Facility - Minor modifications to update language and definition. 
-Added Section 27.04.22 Group Home definiton.
Modified the following sections to allow certain community care facilities as a permitted use and/or special use and only subject to those objective standards 
that apply to other residential uses of the same type in the same zone. Be advised that other Districts (R2, R4, C2, etc) enumerate uses in lower intense 
districts. For instance, any use permitted under the 1 District is also permitted in the R2 District. 
- Section 27.18.020 Permitted Uses (R1 District)
- Section 27.18.030 Special Uses (R1 DIstrict)
- Section 27.22.020 Special Uses (R3 District)
- Section 27.30.020 Special Uses (C1 District)
Staff recommends repealing/removing Chapter 27.27 Residential Care Facilities that includes additional regulations, mandatory requirements, and criteria to 
make approval determination findings for special use permits for Residential Care Facilities. All of these provisions should be removed from the zoning code 
per the Technical Advisory document because they are impediments to establishing residential care facilities. Off-street parking for community care facilities 
are already provided for in Chapter 27.64 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
b)  Review and amend the Zoning Code definition for family, 
and other related regulations, to ensure consistency with 
State and Federal fair housing laws related to persons with 
disabilities. This effort may also include consideration of new 
definitions such as single-unit and multi-unit dwellings to 
accommodate various housing situations.
Staff recommendation
based on State Law
Staff reviewed the definition for 'family' with Diana Elrod (Diana Elrod Consulting), and the definition was determined to comply with State Law. Other terms 
including 'community care facility', 'dwelling', 'dwelling unit' and specific dwelling types listed under dwelling were reviewed and updated (all in Chapter 27.04). 
The term 'group home' was added (Section 27.04.195).      
Policy 
H1.13
Update Special Needs 
Group Housing 
Requirements
Research current code requirement 
regarding special needs group homes for 
people with disabilities for consistency with 
Fair Housing Requirements. The City 
commits to revising procedural 
requirements to permit group homes for 
seven or more persons in all zones allowing 
residential uses based on objective criteria 
to facilitate approval certainty similar to 
other residential uses of the same form.

--- page 35 ---
Summary of Housing Element Implimentation Actions and Zoning Code Amendments
Policy 
Number
Policy Description
Program Measure(s)
Implementation Action(s)
Staff Recommendation
Summary/Discussion of Proposed Code Modifications
Policy 
H1.14
Update Supportive 
Housing 
Requirements
Review and amend zoning code regarding 
multi-family housing development.
Amend the Zoning Code to be consistent with AB 2162 to 
allow by-right 100% affordable housing that has 25% or 12 
units of permanent supportive housing, where multi-family or 
mixed-use housing is permitted. 
Staff recommendation
based on State Law
AB 2162 amends Government Code Section 65583 and adds Article 11 Supportive Housing to require local entities to streamline the approval of housing 
projects containing a minimum amount of Supportive Housing to be a use by right providing a ministerial approval process, removing the requirement for CEQA 
analysis, and removing the requirement for a special use permit or other similar discretionary entitlements granted by the Planning Commission. Government 
Code Section 65583(c)(3) requires  transitional housing and supportive housing are permitted as a residential use and only subject to those restrictions that 
apply to other residential dwellings of the same type in the same zone. 
Staff recommends adding a defintion for 'Supportive Housing' in Section 27.27.04.67 and Transitional Housing in Section 27.04.486. The definitions for 
Supportive Housing and Transitional Housing are consistent with Health and Safety Code Section 50675.2.
Staff recommends adding supportive housing as a permitted use in the R1 and R3 Districts (Sections  27.18.020 and 27.22.010) per state law. R1 District 
permitted uses are enumerated in the R2 District and R3 District permitted uses are enumerated in all other multifamily and mixed use zones. Furthermore, 
consistent with AB 2162, housing projects that satisfies the requirements under Government Code Section 65651 shall be considered a use by right in the R3 
District.
Policy 
H1.15
Update Mobile Home 
Parks Requirements
Amend zoning code requirements regarding 
mobile home parks.
Amend the Zoning Code to allow mobile home parks as a 
special use in all residential zones to be consistent with 
Government Code Section 65852.7
Staff recommendation
based on State Law
Staff recommends adding a defintion for mobilehome park (Section 27.04.313.1) and adding mobilehome park  as a special use permit to the R2 District 
(Section 27.20.020). The R3 and R4 Districts enumerates all R2 District permitted uses. This is consistent with Government Code Section 65852.7.
Policy 
H1.16
Update Farmworker 
Housing 
Requirements
Amend zoning code requirements regarding 
farmworker housing.
Amend the Zoning Code to define and allow farmworker 
housing within the Agricultural District consistent with 
Government Code Section 17021.6. The City will comply with 
Health and Safety Code section 17021.5.
Staff recommendation
based on State Law
Staff recommends adding a definiton section (27.060.020) in Chapter 27.60 Special Districts, Article I Agricultural Districts and adding the term 'farmworker 
housing' and include the defintions of farmworker housing from Health and Safety Code Sections 17021.5 and 17021.6. Section 17021.5 generally requires 
employee housing for six or fewer persons to be treated as a single-family structure and residential use. No conditional-use permit, zoning variance, or other 
zoning clearance shall be required for this type of employee housing that is not required of a family dwelling of the same type in the same zone. Section 17021.6 
generally requires that employee housing consisting of no more than 36 beds in group quarters (or 12 units or less) designed for use by a single family or 
household to be treated as an agricultural use. No conditional-use permit, zoning variance, or other zoning clearance shall be required for this type of employee 
housing that is not required of any other agricultural activity in the same zone. Farmworker housing up to 36 beds in group quarters (or 12 units or less) was 
added as a permitted use under Section 27.60.030. Temporary farmworker housing consisting of more than 36 beds in a group quarters or more than 12 units 
or spaces designed for use by a single family or household was added as a special use under Section 27.60.040.
Policy 
H3.7
Evaluate 
Opportunities for 
Expanding Homeless 
Shelters
Examine best practices and policies to 
expand shelter capacity for individuals 
experiencing homelessness. Study 
feasibility of new shelter programs and 
collaborate with the County to end 
homelessness. 
c)  Review and amend the zoning code to allow emergency 
shelters in C2, C3, and other zones as needed to ensure there 
is sufficient capacity on available sites to accommodate the 
need for emergency shelter as identified in the most recent 
point-in-time count conducted before the start of the 
planning period, in compliance with Government Code 65583.
Staff recommendation
based on State Law
Staff recommends modifying the 'emergency shelter' definition in Section 27.04.177 and include use standards and development standards in the definition. 
This is not the ideal location for these provisions, however, the zoning code needs structural modifications that will be part of the comprehensive zoning code 
update. This will be reviewed during that update and addressed accordingly. Emergency shelters are already a permitted use in the C2 District, however, staff 
has removed the separation language as this has been moved to the emergency shelter definition section. Be aware that the C3 District enumerates all 
permitted uses in the C2 District.
As part of its review, staff evaluated exisiting emergency shelters within the City of San Mateo. There are two permanent facilities that served unhoused 
individuals within the city. 
-325 Villa Terrace: First Step For Families provides interim shelter and services for homeless families serving up to 117 individuals per night with 39 family units.
-El Camino House: A 2022 Homekey project run by Samaritan House. The El Camino House is  a 44-room site where more than 100 individuals were housed 
last year. 
d) Review and amend the zoning code as needed to comply 
with Government Code 65583 including to remove the 300 
feet buffer from a single-family dwelling, clarify that 
emergency shelters are not required to be more than 300 feet 
apart and adopt objective development standards, such as 
parking for shelters in compliance with Government Code 
Section 65583(a)(4)(A)(ii).
Staff recommendation
based on State Law
Staff reviewed the zoning code and modified requirements under the 'emergency shelter' definition in Section 27.04.177. As noted above, staff modified Section 
27.32.010 by removing the separation requirement.

--- page 36 ---
Summary of Housing Element Implimentation Actions and Zoning Code Amendments
Policy 
Number
Policy Description
Program Measure(s)
Implementation Action(s)
Staff Recommendation
Summary/Discussion of Proposed Code Modifications
e) Review and amend the zoning code as needed to comply 
with requirements of AB 101 (2019) to allow Low Barrier 
Navigation Centers (LBNC) as a permitted use by right in areas 
zoned for mixed use and nonresidential zones permitting (by 
right or through a Special Use Permit) multifamily uses if it 
meets specific requirements in Government Code Sections 
65660 – 65668. 
Staff recommendation
based on State Law
Staff recommends adding the term 'low-barrier navigation center' and defintion in Section 27.04.177. The defintion proposed was provided by guidance from 
the Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG). Staff recommends modifying Section 27.30.010 (C1 District) to permit low-barrier navigation centers by right 
consistent with Government Code Sections 65660 - 65668. The C2 District enumerates permitted uses in the C1 District.

--- page 37 ---
PROPOSED ZONING CODE MODIFICATIONS 
 
Chapter 27.04 
DEFINITIONS 
27.04.130 COMMUNITY CARE FACILITY. 
A "community care facility" means any place or building which is maintained and operated 
to provide 24-hour non-medical residential care, or day care services for children, adults, or both, 
limited to the following: 
(a) Residential Care Facility. A residential care facility means a family home, group 
homecare facility, residential care facility for the elderly, foster homealcohol and/or drug recovery 
facility, intermediate care facility or similar facility, for 24-hour non-medical care of persons in 
need of personal services, supervision, or assistance essential for sustaining the activities of daily 
living or for the protection of the individual; 
(b) Day Care Center. A day care facility means any facility which provides non-medical care 
to persons (adults and/or children) in need of personal services, supervision, or assistance 
essential for sustaining the activities of daily living or for the protection of the individual on less 
than a 24-hour basis; 
(c) Family Day Care Home. A family day care home means a facility which provides care, 
protection, and supervision of no more than 14 children in the caregiver's own home, for periods of 
less than 24 hours per day, while the parents or guardians are away. 
27.04.165 DWELLING. 
"Dwelling" means a building or portion thereof, designed or used exclusively for residential 
occupancy, including a one-family dwelling unit, an accessory dwelling unit, a junior accessory 
dwelling unit, a two-family dwelling unit, and a multiple-family dwelling unit, or a single room 
occupancy  but does not include a hotel, motel, boarding or lodging houses or other lodging 
facilities, or a vessel or boat, or a house trailer. 
(a) "Accessory dwelling unit" means an attached or detached residential dwelling unit 
which provides complete independent living facilities for one or more persons, is accessory to the 
primary single-family residential dwelling unit or units, and includes permanent provisions for 
living, sleeping, eating, cooking facilities and sanitation on the same parcel as the primary 
residential dwelling unit. 
(b) "Bachelor, efficiency or Sstudio unit" means a dwelling unit consisting of one principal 
room used for living and sleeping purposes, plus cooking facilities, and a bathroom, and closets.

--- page 38 ---
(c) "Junior accessory dwelling unit" means an additional, independent living unit 
constructed within the walls of a proposed or legally existing single-family residence, including 
attached garages. 
(d) "Multiple-family dwelling" means a building or portion thereof, designed or altered for 
occupancy by three or more families living independently of each other.  
(e) "One-family dwelling" means a building containing one cooking facility only and 
designed exclusively for use and occupancy by one family, including the provision of interior 
access to all bedrooms, and may include a junior accessory dwelling unit within the principal 
dwelling. 
(f) “Primary residential dwelling unit” means a building or separate portion thereof 
designated and/or customarily used as a residence by not more than one family and typically 
situated on a parcel or lot on which no other primary dwelling is located. Each dwelling unit within a 
multiple-family or two-family dwelling is also considered a primary residential dwelling unit (does 
not apply to junior accessories dwelling units or attached accessory dwelling units). The primary 
residential dwelling unit shall be larger, in terms of floor area, than any other residential unit 
situated on the same parcel or lot.  
(g) “Single Room Occupancy” (SRO) means housing composed of individual efficiency 
dwelling units, where each unit has a minimum floor area of 150 square feet and a maximum size of 
500 square feet. To qualify as an SRO development, no more than 10% of the units in a 
development may contain individual kitchens and bathrooms. Any unit not developed with an 
individual kitchen or bathroom must have access to common areas containing kitchen and 
bathroom facilities. SROs must be leased for a minimum of 30 consecutive days and also include 
apartment hotels. SROs are not required to provide any residential care or supportive services. 
(f)(h) "Two-family dwelling" means a building(s) designed or altered to provide attached 
(duplex) or detached dwelling units for occupancy by two families living independently of each 
other. 
27.04.170 DWELLING UNIT. 
"Dwelling unit" means one or more rooms in a residential structure which are arranged or 
designed for use by one family, plus not more than two paying guests, which includes provisions for 
living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation, and if located on multiple levels/stories, the unit 
provides interior connections from a common living area (including but not limited to the a living 
room, family room, dining room, kitchen, and or other common living areas as determined by the 
Zoning Administrator). In addition, a "primary residential dwelling unit" means a building or 
separate portion thereof designated and/or customarily used as a residence by not more than one 
family and situated on a parcel or lot on which no other primary dwelling is located. The primary 
residential dwelling unit shall be larger, in terms of floor area, than any other residential structure 
situated on the same parcel or lot.

--- page 39 ---
27.04.177 EMERGENCY SHELTER. 
"Emergency shelter" means overnight emergency housing typically operated by a 
governmental or nonprofit agency. It serves as the principal shelter of the inhabitants for a 
temporary emergency period and may includes services like food,  and sanitation, laundry, health 
and child care, transportation, and social services. Emergency shelters includes other interim 
interventions, including, but not limited to, a navigation center, bridge housing, and respite or 
recuperative care. means overnight emergency housing, typically operated by a governmental or 
nonprofit agency, which is the principal shelter of the inhabitant for a temporary, emergency period. 
An "emergency shelter" is defined as one that is open for nighttime periods only, that is from 4:00 
p.m. to 8:00 a.m. on the next day; it does not function as a common household for a family, 
although common bath and/or kitchen facilities are typically shared by inhabitants. 
Where authorized as a special use in Chapter 27.18, the Eemergency shelter are is subject 
to the following: (a) The shelter must maintain a documented management plan that outlines 
strategies for staff training, community outreach, security measures, resident intake, and, when 
relevant, programs like job training or counseling;. (b) each emergency shelter is restricted to a 
maximum of one hundred (100) beds, serving no more than one hundred (100) people at one time; 
(c) individuals or families may reside at the shelter for up to 180 days consecutively, except when 
longer stays are part of ongoing training or rehabilitation efforts outlined in the management plan; 
(d) the shelter may provide one or more common facilities, such as central cooking and dining 
rooms, recreation rooms, counseling centers, childcare centers, or other support services, 
exclusively for residents; (e) the shelter must have designated staff on-premises during all 
operational hours;.(f) no more than one (1) emergency shelter shall be allowed within a radius of 
three hundred (300) feet from another such facility, measured from the nearest property lines; (g) 
the interior on-site waiting and intake area must be at least two hundred (200) square feet; and (h) 
minimum on-site parking requirement of two off-street parking spaces plus one additional off-
street parking space for each 10 beds and one additional parking space per each employee on site. 
27.04.222 GROUP HOME 
 “Group home” means a one- family dwelling providing 24-hour residential care for a wide 
variety of persons with special needs, including but not limited to licensed group homes, 
unlicensed group homes, and recovery residences or sober living homes. Residents may share 
cooking, dining, and living areas, and may, in some group homes, participate in cooking, 
housekeeping, and other communal living activities. 
27.04.250 HOTEL, APARTMENT. 
"Apartment hotel" means a building containing dwelling units or individual guest rooms, the 
majority of which are for permanent guests. Maid and janitor service may be provided but kitchen 
facilities are not necessarily included. 
27.04.306 LOW-BARRIER NAVIGATION CENTER 
“Low-barrier navigation center” means a temporary shelter that provides services for 
individuals experiencing homelessness, as defined by California Government Code Section 65660.

--- page 40 ---
Low-barrier navigation centers are subject to the following: (a) It offers services to connect people 
to permanent housing through a services plan that identifies services staffing; (b) It is linked to a 
coordinated entry system, so that staff in the interim facility or staff who co-locate in the facility 
may conduct assessments and provide services to connect people to permanent housing. 
“Coordinated entry system” means a centralized or coordinated assessment system developed 
pursuant to Section 576.400(d) or Section 578.7(a)(8), as applicable, of Title 24 of the Code of 
Federal Regulations, as those sections read on January 1, 2020, and any related requirements, 
designed to coordinate program participant intake, assessment, and referrals; (c) It complies with 
Welfare and Institutions Code Section 8255 et seq; and (d) It has a system for entering information 
regarding client stays, client demographics, client income, and exit destination through the local 
Homeless Management Information System, as defined by Section 578.3 of Title 24 of the Code of 
Federal Regulations. 
27.04.308 MANUFACTURED HOME 
"Manufactured home" shall mean a structure, transportable in one or more sections, 
which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width, or forty (40) feet or more in length, 
or when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and 
designed to be used as a dwelling installed on a permanent foundation when connected to the 
required utilities, and the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems are contained 
within the structure. "Manufactured home" shall also include any structure which meets all the 
requirements of this subsection except the size requirements and to which the manufacturer 
voluntarily has filed a certification and complies with the standards established by the Health and 
Safety Code. "Manufactured home" shall also include a mobilehome subject to the National 
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Act of 1974. "Manufactured home" shall include 
only those structures that contain two or less dwelling units, and that conform to the applicable 
requirements of the laws of the State of California or United States. 
27.04.313.1 MOBILEHOME PARK 
 “Mobilehome park” means any area or tract of land where two or more lots are rented or 
leased, held out for rent or lease, or were formerly held out for rent or lease and later converted to a 
subdivision, cooperative, condominium, or other form of resident ownership, to accommodate 
manufactured homes, mobilehomes, or recreational vehicles used for human habitation as defined 
in Section 18214 of the Health and Safety Code, as amended from time to time. The rental paid for a 
manufactured home, a mobilehome, or a recreational vehicle shall be deemed to include rental for 
the lot it occupies. “Mobilehome park” also means a mobilehome development constructed 
according to the requirements of Part 2.1 (commencing with Section 18200) of Division 13 of the 
Health and Safety Code, and intended for use and sale as a mobilehome condominium or 
cooperative park, or as a mobilehome planned unit development.

--- page 41 ---
27.04.203 FOUNDATION 
 
“Permanent foundation" shall mean assembly of materials constructed below, or partially 
below grade, not intended to be removed from its installation site, which is designed to support a 
manufactured home structure and engineered to resist the imposition of external natural forces, as 
defined by the Health and Safety Code or the Building Code, whichever is more restrictive. 
27.04.467 SUPPORTIVE HOUSING 
(a) “Supportive Housing” means housing with no limit on length of stay, that is occupied by 
the target population, and that is linked to onsite or offsite services that assist the supportive 
housing resident in retaining the housing, improving their health status, and maximizing their ability 
to live and, when possible, work in the community. Supportive housing shall only be subject to 
those restrictions that apply to other residential dwellings of the same type in the same zone 
(b) “Target Population” means persons, including persons with disabilities, and families 
who are “homeless,” as that term is defined by Section 11302 of Title 42 of the United States Code, 
or who are “homeless youth,” as that term is defined by paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) of Section 
12957 of the Government Code as may be amended from time to time. 
27.04.486 TRANSITIONAL HOUSING 
 
“Transitional housing” and “transitional housing development” means buildings configured 
as rental housing developments, but operated under program requirements that call for the 
termination of assistance and recirculation of the assisted unit to another eligible program 
recipient at some predetermined future point in time, which shall be no less than six months. 
Transitional housing shall only be subject to those restrictions that apply to other residential 
dwellings of the same type in the same zone. 
 
27.06.020 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR - POWERS AND DUTIES. 
 
The Zoning Administrator shall enforce the provisions of this Title, and shall: 
 
(h) 
Have the authority to review and approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the 
following types of projects, provided that the projects do not result in any significant impacts 
pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), subject to public notice and to appeal 
of the final action to the Planning Commission: 
 
(1) 
Site plan and architectural review for projects that incorporate: 
  
(A) 
Up to fiftytwenty-five (5025) residential dwelling units that meet objective design standards 
as adopted by resolution of the City Council; or

--- page 42 ---
27.06.040 PLANNING COMMISSION—JURISDICTION. 
 
(a) The Commission shall review and take final action, subject to appeal to the Council, upon all 
applications for: 
 
(3) Site Plan and Architectural Review for projects that incorporate: 
 
(1) 
Site plan and architectural review for projects that incorporate: 
  
(A)   
Twenty-six (26)Fifty-one (51) or more residential dwelling units that meet objective design 
standards as adopted by resolution of the City Council; or 
 
Chapter 27.17 
MANUFACTURED HOMES 
27.17.010 MANUFACTURED HOMES. 
Manufactured homes shall conform to the minimum lot size, yard areas, access, vehicular 
parking, and setbacks for the zone in which they are to be installed in addition to meeting the 
standards set forth in this ordinance. 
27.17.020 DEFINITIONS. 
(a) For purposes of permitting manufactured homes in residential zones, the following 
definitions shall apply: 
(1) "Architectural features" shall mean an architectural feature that occurs or 
appears frequently on conventionally-built homes within three hundred (300) feet from the 
boundaries of a parcel on which a manufactured home is proposed. 
(2) "Manufactured home" shall mean a structure, transportable in one or more 
sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width, or forty (40) feet 
or more in length, or when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on 
a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent 
foundation when connected to the required utilities, and the plumbing, heating, air 
conditioning, and electrical systems are contained within the structure. "Manufactured 
home" shall also include any structure which meets all the requirements of this subsection 
except the size requirements and to which the manufacturer voluntarily has filed a 
certification and complies with the standards established by the Health and Safety Code. 
"Manufactured home" shall also include a mobilehome subject to the National 
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Act of 1974. "Manufactured home" shall 
include only those structures that contain two or less dwelling units, and that conform to 
the applicable requirements of the laws of the State of California or United States.

--- page 43 ---
(3) "Manufactured home" shall mean a dwelling manufactured off-site, conforming 
to state or federal standards, (bearing a state, or federal label) and transportable in one or 
more sections, designed to be installed on a permanent foundation. 
(4) "Permanent foundation" shall mean assembly of materials constructed 
below, or partially below grade, not intended to be removed from its installation site, which 
is designed to support a manufactured home structure and engineered to resist the 
imposition of external natural forces, as defined by the Health and Safety Code or the 
Building Code, whichever is more restrictive. 
27.17.030 MANUFACTURED HOME TAXATION. 
The initial installation of a manufactured home on a parcel which has been installed on a 
permanent foundation pursuant to this ordinance shall be deemed to be a manufactured home 
subject to local property taxation pursuant to the Health and Safety Code and the Revenue and 
Taxation Code. Upon issuance of a certificate of occupancy, the City shall record with the County 
Recorder the specifics of such permanent installation and, also, advise the State Department of 
Housing and Community Development. 
27.17.040 SPAR. 
A manufactured home unit on a permanent foundation on a private lot may be permitted 
subject to the approval of a site plan and architectural review (SPAR) application by the Zoning 
Administrator. The applicant/owner shall also provide the information required on the MH Form. 
Subsequent modifications, such as, room additions, shall be subject to issuance of a building 
permit. 
27.17.050 ELIGIBILITY. 
A manufactured home shall not be installed on a permanent foundation on a private parcel 
unless it: 
 
Was constructed after September 15, 1971, and was issued an insignia of approval by 
the California Department of Housing and Community Development or was constructed after July 
1, 1976, and was issued a label of approval by the United States Department of Housing and Urban 
Development; and 
(a) Has not been altered in violation of applicable federal and state codes; and 
(a) The board, upon the findings and recommendations of its members shall determine the 
eligibility of each mobilehome unit to be installed. 
27.17.060 STANDARDS. 
A manufactured home located on a permanent foundation on a private parcel shall:

--- page 44 ---
(a) Be occupied only as a residential use type. 
(a) Be subject to all provisions of the Municipal Code applicable to conventional residential 
structures. 
(a) Meet all development and design standards for the zone in which they are to be 
installed, including but not limited to the parking standards in Chapter 27.64 conforming to the 
maximum floor area ratio, and including landscape requirements, as applicable. 
(a) Be attached to a permanent foundation in compliance with all applicable building 
regulations, and of the health and Safety code. 
(a) Have a minimum width of twenty (20) feet or be a double-wide, multi-sectional unit. 
(a) Be covered with exterior building materials and have architectural features customarily 
used on conventional residential dwellings and be approved by the board. The exterior covering 
material shall extend to finished grade, except that when a solid concrete or masonry perimeter 
foundation is used, the exterior covering material need not extend below the top of the foundation. 
(a) Have a roof with a pitch of not less than two (2) inch vertical rise for each twelve (12) 
inch of horizontal run and consisting of shingles or other material customarily used for 
conventional residential dwellings. 
(a) Assure that the general appearance of the structure and property is in keeping with the 
character of the neighborhood. To achieve this assurance, the board shall require porches and 
eaves or roofs with eaves, specific roofing materials and siding when, in its opinion, it is necessary 
to be compatible with the dwellings in the area. The board shall assure that: 
(0) All windows and doors be architecturally treated in a manner complimentary to 
the building's overall design and shall comply to the City's security standards. 
(0) Screening be provided for all mechanical and electrical equipment, so that they 
are not visible from the public right-of-way. For roof and wall mounted equipment, the 
screening shall be an integral part of the building design. 
(0) Exterior materials shall generally consist of those permitted by the Building 
Code. Shiny, metallic surfaces are unacceptable. 
(a) Be provided with standard utility connections. The housing unit electrical, gas, water 
and drain connections shall be made permanent in a manner applicable to permanent buildings. 
Gas shutoff valves, meters and regulators shall not be located beneath the manufactured home. 
(a) Obtain a site development permit pursuant to Chapter 23.40 of this code.

--- page 45 ---
27.17.070 MODIFICATION OF STANDARDS. 
Modification of the standards set forth in section 27.17.060, paragraphs (e), (f) and (g), may 
be granted by the board if it finds that such modification will not be detrimental to the public 
interest or surrounding residents or properties. 
27.17.080 SURRENDER OF REGISTRATION. 
Subsequent to applying for the required building permits, and prior to occupancy, the owner 
shall surrender the certificate of title or other indicia of registration to the state department of 
community development pursuant to section 18551(b) of the California Health and Safety Code. 
Thereafter, any vehicle license plate, certificate of ownership, and certificate of registration issued 
by a state agency is to be surrendered to the appropriate state agencies. Any manufactured home 
which is permanently attached to a permanent foundation must bear a California insignia or federal 
label, pursuant to section 18550(b) of the Health and Safety Code. 
27.17.090 BUILDING PERMIT. 
Prior to installation of a mobilehome on a permanent foundation, the mobilehome owner or 
a licensed contractor shall obtain a building permit from the City building division. To obtain such a 
permit, the owner or contractor shall comply with all requirements of section 18551(a) of the State 
Health and Safety Code. 
Chapter 27.18 
R1 DISTRICTS—ONE FAMILY DWELLINGS 
27.18.020 PERMITTED USES. 
The following uses are permitted: 
(a) One-family detached dwellings, including manufactured homes on permanent 
foundations subject to provisions of Chapter 27.17; 
(b) Accessory dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling units subject to the provisions of 
Chapter 27.19; 
(c) Accessory uses and structures; 
(d) Detached accessory structures containing no more than two (2) plumbing fixtures or 
waste lines; 
(e) Home occupations, subject to provisions of Section 27.16.040; 
(f) Community care facilities licensed by the State of California for the followingas follows: 
(1) Unlicensed group homes subject to the objective development standards that 
apply to other residential uses of the same type in the same zone;

--- page 46 ---
(1)(2) Licensed residential care facilities including group homes with six (6) or fewer 
residents, in addition to the caregiver's family, subject to the objective development 
standards that apply to other residential uses of the same type in the same zone. Certain 
licensed group homes shall be subject to separation requirements pursuant to Health and 
Safety Code Section 1267.9, as amended from time to time; and 
(2)(3) Family day care for fourteen (14) or fewer occupants, in addition to the 
caregiver's family, when managed in the caregiver's residence and in accordance with State 
law.; and 
(g) Temporary buildings for construction purposes for a period not to exceed the duration of 
such construction;. 
(g)(h) Transitional housing and supportive housing subject to the objective development 
standards that apply to other residential uses of the same type in the same zone. 
27.18.030 SPECIAL USES. 
The following uses may also be allowed if a special use permit is approved: 
(a) Detached accessory structures, other than secondary unitsaccessory dwelling units, 
containing more than two (2) plumbing fixtures or waste lines; 
(b) Swimming pools, hot tubs and spas located in required front yard or street side yard; 
(c) Cemeteries, mausoleums, and columbaria, subject to the provisions of the Section 
27.18.120; 
(d) Churches, convents, parish houses, and monasteries, including as a permitted 
accessory use emergency shelters subject to the requirements in a residential zone; 
(e) Community services including but not limited to libraries, parks, playgrounds, and 
community centers; 
(f) Group homes that provide licensed services to seven (7) or more residents without 
disabilities, in addition to the caregiver's family, subject to the objective development standards 
that apply to other residential uses of the same type in the same zone. Certain licensed group 
homes shall be subject to separation requirements pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section 
1267.9; 
(f)(g) Public and private educational facilities; 
(g)(h) Day care centers when located within a public or quasi-public structure such as a 
school, recreation center, church, temple or similar facility;

--- page 47 ---
(h)(i) Philanthropic and eleemosynary uses; 
(i)(j) Public utility facilities; and 
(j)(k) Temporary real estate sales offices for a period not to exceed the duration of the 
construction and sale of homes within the subdivision wherein the sales office is to be located. 
Chapter 27.20 
R2 DISTRICTS—TWO FAMILY DWELLINGS 
27.20.020 SPECIAL USES. 
(a) Special uses in the R2 districts shall be any special uses permitted in the R1 district, the 
subject to the same regulations and exceptions;. 
( ) (b) Mobilehome parks. 
 
Chapter 27.22 
R3 DISTRICT—MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLINGS (MEDIUM DENSITY) 
27.22.010 PERMITTED USES. 
Use of buildings or land in this district and buildings hereafter erected, structurally altered 
or enlarged, shall be limited to the following: 
(a) Any use permitted in the R1 and R2 districts; 
(b) Multiple family dwellings, as defined in this title; 
(c) One family row dwellings, as defined in this title; 
(c)(d) Supportive housing in compliance with Government Code Sections 65650 - 65656], 
shall be considered a use by-right use. “Use by right” shall have the same meaning as defined in 
Government Code Section 65583.2(i).  Supportive housing shall also be in compliance with Section 
27.94.020 By-Right Residential Use Requirements and subject only to those objective development 
standards and policies that apply to other multifamily development within the same zone. 
(d)(e) Accessory uses which are necessary to the above-mentioned buildings and uses. 
27.22.020 SPECIAL USES. 
Unless otherwise provided, the following uses may be allowed if a special use permit is 
approved:

--- page 48 ---
(a) Any special use permitted in the R1 and R2 districts; 
(b) Bed and breakfast inns; 
(c) Boarding and lodging houses with a five (5) resident person limitation; 
(d) Convalescent homes, rest homes, nursing homes; limited to the housing of not more 
than six (6) persons in addition to the owner or manager and family; 
(e)(d) Residential care facility (excluding group homes) serving  with seven (7) or more 
persons residents in addition to the caregiver, and conforming with the provisions of Chapter 
27.27. Certain licensed care facilities shall be subject to separation requirements pursuant to 
Health and Safety Code Section 1267.9; 
(e) Day care centers. 
 
Chapter 27.24 
R4 DISTRICT—MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLINGS (HIGH DENSITY) 
27.24.010 PERMITTED USES. 
Use of buildings or land in this district and buildings hereafter erected, structurally altered 
or enlarged, shall be limited to the following: 
(a) Any use permitted in the R1, R2, or R3 districts; 
(b) Single Room Occupancy Units; 
(b)(c) Accessory uses which are necessary to the above-mentioned buildings and uses. 
Chapter 27.27 
RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES 
27.27.010 PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF DEVELOPMENT AND/OR USE PURSUANT TO THIS CHAPTER. 
This chapter is intended to regulate residential care facilities with seven (7) or more 
residents in addition to the caregiver. Residential care facilities serving six or fewer residents, in 
addition to the caregiver, are permitted in all zoning districts that permit single family residences 
and shall not be required to meet any requirement of this chapter. Any zoning plot developed or 
used pursuant to this chapter shall not thereafter be used for any purpose other than a residential 
care facility unless and until the Zoning Administrator has certified in writing that the alternate use 
satisfies all applicable and then existing land use regulations pertaining to the classification of the 
zoning plot.

--- page 49 ---
27.27.020 RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES SPECIAL USE CRITERIA. 
When the proposed use meets the requirements of this chapter and all the following 
criteria, residential care facilities serving 7 or more residents in addition to the caregiver may be 
permitted by approval of a special use permit and a site plan and architectural review by the 
Planning Commission in any zoning district that permits multiple family dwellings, but in no event in 
an R-1 or R-2 zoning district. 
(b) There are no other residential care facilities of any size within 300 radial feet of the 
perimeter of the subject property. 
(b) Residential occupancy of residential care facilities for the elderly, other than by the 
caregiver and his or her immediate family, shall be limited to persons over sixty (60) years old or to 
"qualified permanent residents", as defined in California Government Code Sections 51.2-51.4, or 
any successor legislation, who are provided varying levels and intensities of care and supervision 
and personal care, and who have voluntarily chosen to reside in this type of group housing 
arrangement. 
(b) The proposed use shall be licensed by the State or County and shall be conducted in a 
manner and with facilities that comply with Title 23 for this kind of occupancy. If the State or 
County license is suspended or revoked, the special use permit shall automatically also be 
suspended or revoked. 
(b) Facilities having persons in excess of 60 years of age or having physical handicaps shall 
be specifically designed and adapted to include safety bars and rails in bedrooms and bathrooms, 
ramps, and other provisions required for elderly or handicapped persons by State law or Federal 
regulations. In addition, such facilities shall include a common dining area as well as adequate 
common living areas and amenities to facilitate program activities. 
(b) The use shall be specifically designed and/or maintained to have a residential 
appearance as determined by review of the Zoning Administrator and be compatible with the 
architectural character of the zoning district. In residential zoning districts, signs and ramps and 
any other "non-residential" feature visible from the public right-of-way shall not be permitted. 
27.27.030 SPECIAL DENSITY STANDARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES. 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code, residential care facilities located in any 
zoning district that permits community care facilities shall have a total floor area that averages at 
least 350 square feet of floor area per resident, excluding parking. Where existing structural 
constraints preclude meeting this requirement, additional floor area to meet this requirement may 
be achieved through covered patios and decks.

--- page 50 ---
27.27.040 OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS. 
(b) For residential care facilities located outside of the central business district, there shall 
be a minimum of 100 square feet of common usable open space area per resident and live-in 
caregiver. 
(b) For residential care facilities located within the central business district there shall be 
provided a minimum of 100 square feet of common usable open space area per resident and live-in 
caregiver. Indoor common living areas and amenities to facilitate program activities may be 
counted towards this requirement up to a maximum of 75% of the total open space area required. 
(b) Any open space area to be counted toward the requirements of this Section shall have a 
minimum dimension of not less than six feet (6') in any direction and be easily accessible to all 
residents. 
(b) Outdoor areas shall be designed to provide amenities and recreational areas 
compatible with the needs of the residents, such as pathways and sitting areas, flower and 
vegetable gardens, shuffleboard courts, putting greens and similar active recreation areas. 
(b) Where additional stories prohibit easy access to open space areas on the ground floor, 
open roof decks, balconies, or lanais shall be provided in an amount, dimension, area, and 
location as determined to be adequate by the Zoning Administrator. 
(b) The proposed improvement of all required open space shall be designated on the plans 
submitted with the planning application, and upon the approval of such plans, be considered a 
required part of the use permit, site, and structural improvements. 
27.27.050 OFF-STREET PARKING. 
(b) Buildings constructed as residential care facilities serving from seven (7) to fifteen (15) 
residents shall be required to provide one parking space for each five (5) residents, in addition to 
one parking space for each live-in caregiver. At least two of the parking spaces shall be enclosed. 
(b) Buildings constructed as residential care facilities serving more than (15) residents shall 
be required to provide one parking space for each (5) residents in addition to one parking space for 
each caregiver, employee, and doctor to be on-site at any one time. 
(b) Existing single-family residences to be converted into residential care facilities shall 
maintain existing covered parking; additional parking to meet the requirement of Subsection (a) or 
(b) above, as applicable, may be enclosed or uncovered.

--- page 51 ---
27.27.060 OTHER LAND USE STANDARDS. 
Except as expressly provided in this chapter, the land use standards for residential care 
facilities, such as yard areas and floor area, shall be governed by the land use standards of the 
applicable zoning district.

--- page 52 ---
Chapter 27.30 
C1 DISTRICTS—NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL 
27.30.010 PERMITTED USES. 
The following uses are permitted provided that the use limitations contained in Section 
27.30.025, "Permitted and special uses—Twenty-Fifth Avenue Improvement Area," shall apply to 
properties in the Twenty-Fifth Avenue Improvement Area and the use limitations contained in 
Section 27.30.027, "Permitted and special uses—Hillsdale Station Area Plan Active Zone," shall 
apply to properties in the Hillsdale Station Area Plan Active Zone: 
(a) Permitted Uses in Residential Districts. Residential units only on parcels designated 
with a residential overlay district classification subject to R3 district "Minimum Development 
Standards" in Section 27.22.040 and affordable housing requirements as adopted by City Council 
resolution, unless otherwise specified in Chapter 27.29; however, secondary units are prohibited; 
(b)(a) Animal grooming, provided no overnight boarding occurs on the site; 
(c)(b) Bakeries; 
(d)(c) Barber shops and hair salons; 
(e)(d) Delicatessens; 
(f)(e) Dry cleaners, with customer service areas; 
(g)(f) Financial institutions, provided the ground floor area devoted to this use does not 
exceed 2,500 square feet per establishment; 
(h)(g) Health studios and spas; 
(i)(h) Laundromats; 
(i) Libraries; 
(j)  Low Barrier Navigation Center above the ground floor in compliance with Government 
Code Sections 65660-65668 shall be considered a use by-right. “Use by right” shall have the same 
meaning as defined in subdivision (i) of Section 65583.2.  Supportive housing shall also be in 
compliance with Section 27.94.020 By-Right Residential Use Requirements and subject only to 
those objective development standards and policies that apply to other multifamily development 
within the same zone. 
(j)(k) Newspaper publishing;

--- page 53 ---
(k)(l) Offices, provided the ground floor area devoted to this use does not exceed 2,500 
square feet per establishment; 
(l)(m) Photo processing; 
(m)(n) Picture framing; 
(n)(o) Real estate establishments; 
(p) Residential units above the ground floor, on parcels with or without a residential overlay 
district classification subject to R3 district "Minimum Development Standards" in Section 
27.22.040 and affordable housing requirements as adopted by City Council resolution, unless 
otherwise specified in Chapter 27.29; however, residential units on parcels with established (non-
vacant for less than 5 years) neighborhood commercial uses or corridors may only be permitted on 
the upper stories to preserve existing services.  
(o)(q) Restaurants and accessory outdoor dining areas, without drive-through facilities; 
(p)(r) Retail uses, such as, but not limited to, the following uses, subject to a maximum of 
15,000 square feet of floor area per establishment except for supermarkets and drug stores: 
(1) Antique shops, 
(2) Apparel sales, tailoring and repair stores, 
(3) Drug stores, 
(4) Hardware and garden supply stores, 
(5) Household furnishings, 
(6) Pet shops, 
(7) Supermarkets and grocery stores; 
(q)(s) Reverse vending machines, subject to regulations established in Chapter 27.69; 
(r)(t) Schools and day care facilities; 
(s)(u) Travel agencies; 
(t)(v) Accessory uses to principle uses permitted; and 
(u)(w) Other compatible uses as determined by the zoning administrator.

--- page 54 ---
27.30.020 SPECIAL USES. 
The following uses may also be permitted subject to approval of a special use permit, 
provided that the use limitations contained in Section 27.30.025, "Permitted and special uses—
Twenty-Fifth Avenue Improvement Area," shall apply to properties in the Twenty-Fifth Avenue 
improvement Area and the use limitations contained in Section 27.30.027, "Permitted and special 
uses—Hillsdale Station Area Plan Active Zone," shall apply to properties in the Hillsdale Station 
Area Plan Active Zone: 
(a) Accessory buildings containing plumbing; 
(b) Alternative financial services subject to the following requirements: 
(1) A maximum of four alternative financial services may be located in the City of 
San Mateo. 
(2) No alternative financial service may be located within a radius of 1,000 feet from 
the nearest existing alternative financial service. 
(3) Any alternative financial service seeking to begin operations after the effective 
date of the ordinance codified in this section shall meet the following minimum standards 
of performance, which shall be included as conditions of approval for such uses: 
(A) A lighting plan shall be reviewed and approved by the Police Department 
and the Building Division for conformance with the City's security ordinance prior to 
the issuance of building permits. 
(B) Storefronts shall have glass or transparent glazing in the windows and 
doors. No more than 10% of any window or door area shall be covered by signs, 
banners, or opaque coverings of any kind. 
(C) Hours of operation shall be limited to 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. 
(D) At least one uniformed security guard will be on duty at all times the 
business is open. The security guard shall patrol the interior and all exterior portions 
of the property under the control of the owner or operator of the alternative financial 
service, including, but not limited to, parking lots and any open public spaces such 
as lobbies. 
(c) Automobile gasoline service stations; 
(d) Boarding, lodging, or rooming houses;

--- page 55 ---
(e) Community care facilities serving seven or more persons in addition to the caregiver. 
Certain licensed care facilities shall be subject to separation requirements pursuant to Health and 
Safety Code Section 1267.9 , and conforming with the provisions of Chapter 27.27; 
(f) Convalescent homes, rest homes, nursing homes, limited to the housing of not more 
than six persons in addition to the owner or manager, and family; 
(g) Drive-through facilities for financial institutions and for pharmacies dispensing only 
prescriptions or medicinal goods at the drive-through facility. Drive-through facilities for 
pharmacies shall be subject to the parking requirements for financial institution drive-through 
uses, as enumerated in Section 27.64.160(7)(a). 
(h) Fast food establishments without drive-through facilities; 
(i) Financial institutions, exceeding 2,500 square feet of ground floor area per 
establishment up to a maximum of 15,000 square feet of floor area; 
(j) Offices exceeding 2,500 square feet of ground floor area per establishment up to a 
maximum of 15,000 square feet of floor area; 
(k) Parking facilities, as a principal use; 
(l) Public utility and public service uses; 
(m) Recreational vehicle storage, subject to regulations established in Section 27.64.267, 
and only on those parcels designated for such use in Section 27.60.180; 
(n) Recycling facilities subject to regulations established in Chapter 27.69; 
(o) Religious institutions; 
(p) Residential units on parcels without a residential overlay district classification subject 
to R3 district "Minimum Development Standards" in Section 27.22.040 and affordable housing 
requirements as adopted by City Council resolution, unless otherwise specified in Chapter 27.29; 
however, secondary units are prohibited; 
(p) Businesses selling or renting firearms as defined by Penal Code Section 12001(b); and 
(q) Other compatible uses as determined by the zoning administrator subject to the 
granting of a special use permit. 
Chapter 27.32 
C2 DISTRICTS—REGIONAL/COMMUNITY COMMERCIAL

--- page 56 ---
27.32.010 PERMITTED USES. 
The following uses are permitted: 
(a) Permitted uses in the C1 district; 
(b) Art galleries; 
(c) Automotive accessory stores, excluding on-site service and repair of vehicles; 
(d) Boarding, lodging, or rooming houses; 
(e) Catering services; 
(f) Hotels and motels, including restaurant and meeting rooms; 
(g) Laundries; 
 
(g)(h) Medical and dental clinics, including laboratories; 
(h)(i) Offices; 
(i)(j) Parking facilities; 
(j)(k) Printing, lithographing, or publishing establishments for newspaper, business cards, 
and other similar uses; 
(k)(l) Radio and television broadcasting stations; 
(l)(m) Reproduction services; 
(m)(n) Residential units, only on parcels designated with a Q5 overlay classification, or a 
residential overlay district classification, or no overlay classification subject to R4 district 
"Minimum Development Standards" in Section 27.24.040 and affordable housing requirements as 
adopted by City Council resolution, except as otherwise specified in Chapter 27.29; however, 
secondary units are prohibited; 
(n)(o) Retail uses, including incidental rental and repair; 
(o)(p) Emergency Shelters, ; located more than 300 feet from single family zoning districts; 
(p)(q) Accessory uses to principle uses permitted; and

--- page 57 ---
(q)(r) Other compatible uses as determined by the zoning administrator. 
 
27.32.020 SPECIAL USES. 
The following uses may also be permitted, subject to approval of a special use permit: 
(a) Special uses permitted in the residential and C1 districts, except increases in floor area 
ratios; 
(b) Clubs, lodges, and fraternal organizations; 
(c) Commercial recreation uses; 
(d) Hospitals; 
(e) Mortuaries; 
(f) Public transportation facilities and terminals; 
and other similar uses; 
(g) Residential units on parcels without a residential overlay district classification subject 
to R4 district "Minimum Development Standards" in Section 27.24.040 and affordable housing 
requirements as adopted by City Council resolution, unless otherwise specified in Chapter 27.29; 
however, secondary units are prohibited; 
(h)(g) Recreational vehicle storage, subject to the provisions of Section 27.64.267 of this 
Title; 
(i)(h) Theaters, excluding drive-in theaters; and 
(j)(i) Other compatible uses as determined by the zoning administrator subject to the 
granting of a special permit. 
Chapter 27.34 
C3 DISTRICTS—REGIONAL/COMMUNITY COMMERCIAL 
27.34.010 PERMITTED USES. 
The following uses are permitted: 
(a) Permitted uses in the C1 and C2 districts ; however, secondary units are 
prohibitedprovided that residential uses are subject to R4 district "Minimum Development

--- page 58 ---
Standards" in Chapter 27.24 and affordable housing requirements as adopted by City Council 
resolution, except as otherwise specified in Chapter 27.29; 
(b) Ambulance service; 
(c) Automobile, boat, and truck sales and rental, including service and repair as accessory 
to the primary sales use, sales may occur on open lot; 
(d) Automobile service, parts, and repairs, classified as minor motor vehicle repair in 
Section 27.04.325; 
(e) Car wash and detailing facilities, may not occur on open lot; 
(f) Laboratories, research, experimental, and testing, provided no production or 
manufacturing of products occurs on the premises; 
(g) Accessory uses to principle uses permitted; and 
(h) Other compatible uses as determined by the Zoning Administrator. 
 
Chapter 27.36 
C4 DISTRICT- SERVICE COMMERCIAL  
27.36.010 PERMITTED USES. 
The following uses are permitted: 
(a) Permitted uses in the C1, C2, and C3 districts, except that residential uses, low barrier 
navigation centers, office uses on the properties along Palm Avenue between Twentieth and 
Twenty-fifth Avenues, secondary units, and emergency shelters are prohibited; 
Chapter 27.38 
CBD DISTRICTS—CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT 
27.38.020 PERMITTED USES. 
Unless otherwise provided in this title, uses of building or land in this district and buildings 
hereafter erected, structurally altered or enlarged shall be limited to the following uses: 
(a) Any use permitted in the C2 District, except an animal hospital and emergency shelters; 
provided that the use limitations contained in Section 27.38.110, Required Retail Frontage, shall 
apply to properties located within the required retail frontage area, as shown in the Downtown 
Plan.

--- page 59 ---
(b) Multiple-family dwellings, when part of a mixed use development, subject to CBD 
residential development standards and affordable housing requirements as adopted by City 
Council resolution; however, secondary units are prohibited. 
(c) Name plates and signs, as classified and regulated in Title 25. 
Chapter 27.44 
E1 DISTRICTS—EXECUTIVE PARK 
27.44.020 PERMITTED USES. 
The following uses shall be permitted: 
(a) Administrative, executive, and professional offices, provided that the professional 
offices are limited to those professions listed in Section 5.24.160, and including similar 
professional occupations, and provided that no office of a veterinarian shall include an animal 
hospital or kennel. 
(b) Accessory uses; including, but not limited to: 
(1) Sale of personal goods and services, when provided in the principal building, 
including, but not limited to, the following: 
(A) Flower, food, and news vending; 
(B) Printing and photocopying; 
(C) Travel agencies; 
(D) Ticket outlets; 
(2) Other services which are customary appurtenant uses. 
(c) Health and recreation facilities. 
(d) Public utility and service uses. 
(e) Financial and business offices and related facilities. 
(f) Research laboratories (experimental and testing), provided no production or 
manufacturing occurs, and provided that all activities conform with the performance standards 
established for the M1 district. 
(g) Residential units, only on parcels designated with or without a residential overlay district 
classification subject to R3 district "Minimum Development Standards" in Section 27.22.040 and

--- page 60 ---
affordable housing requirements as adopted by City Council resolution, unless otherwise specified 
in Chapter 27.29; however, secondary units are prohibited. 
(h) Restaurants without drive-through facilities. 
(i) Schools and day care facilities. 
(j) Warehousing, storage, and distribution facilities as accessory uses but not exceeding 
10,000 square feet per establishment or not more than 60% of gross floor area per establishment. 
(k) Other compatible uses as determined by the Zoning Administrator. 
27.44.030 SPECIAL USES. 
The following uses may also be permitted subject to approval of a special use permit: 
(a) Alternative financial services, subject to the restrictions set forth in Section 27.30.020; 
(b) Automobile gasoline service station; 
(c) Clubs, lodges, and fraternal organizations; 
(d) Hotels; 
(e) Parking facilities, as a principle use; 
(f) Religious institutions; and 
(g) Residential units on parcels without a residential overlay district classification subject 
to R3 District "Minimum Development Standards" in Section 27.22.040 and affordable housing 
requirements as adopted by City Council resolution, unless otherwise specified in Chapter 27.29; 
however, secondary units are prohibited; and 
(h)(g) Other compatible uses as determined by the Zoning Administrator subject to the 
granting of a special use permit. 
Chapter 27.48 
E2 DISTRICTS—EXECUTIVE OFFICES 
27.48.020 PERMITTED USES. 
The following uses are permitted: 
(a) Permitted uses in the E1 district;

--- page 61 ---
( ) Residential units, only on parcels designated with a residential overlay district 
classification subject to R4 district "Minimum Development Standards" in Chapter 27.24 and 
affordable housing requirements as adopted by City Council resolution, except as otherwise 
specified in Chapter 27.29; however secondary units are prohibited. 
27.48.030 SPECIAL USES. 
Reserved.  Special Uses in the E1 district may also be allowed subject to approval of a 
special use permit. Residential units on parcels without a residential overlay district classification 
subject to R4 district "Minimum Development Standards" in Section 27.24.040 and affordable 
housing requirements as adopted by City Council resolution, unless otherwise specified in Chapter 
27.29; however, secondary units are prohibited. 
Chapter 27.60 
SPECIAL DISTRICTS 
Article I Agricultural Districts 
27.060.020 DEFINITIONS 
The following definitions apply to this chapter. 
(a) “Farmworker housing” means an agricultural employee housing development that 
satisfies all of the following: 
(1) The agricultural employee housing does not contain dormitory-style housing. 
(2) The development consists of no more than 36 units or spaces designed for use 
by a single family or household. 
(3) Except as otherwise provided in subparagraph (2), the agricultural employee 
housing will be maintained and operated by a qualified affordable housing organization that 
has been certified pursuant to Government Code Section 17030.10 or operated by a local 
public housing agency or a multicounty, state, or multistate agency that has been certified 
as a qualified affordable housing organization. 
(4) An affordability covenant is recorded on the property to ensure the affordability 
of the proposed agricultural employee housing for agricultural employees for not less than 
55 years.  
27.60.030 PERMITTED USES. 
Permitted uses shall be as follows:

--- page 62 ---
(a) All uses commonly classed as agriculture, horticulture or forestry, including crop and 
tree farming, and nursery operation. 
(b) Horse racetracks and related uses, including, but not limited to, veterinary facilities, 
feed storage facilities, stables, offices, restaurants, sleeping quarters, plant nurseries and 
equipment storage facilities. 
(c) One-family detached dwelling and accessory buildings provided the property (or zoning 
plot) upon which the dwelling is located has as its principal use one of the agricultural uses 
permitted above.  
(c)(d) Accessory dwelling units, whenre a primary dwelling is located on the site. 
(d)(e) Parks, forest preserves and recreational areas, when publicly owned and operated. 
(e)(f) Golf courses, regulation size, but not including "par 3" golf courses, commercially 
operated driving ranges or miniature golf courses; and provided, that no clubhouse or accessory 
building shall be located nearer than five feet to any dwelling. 
(f)(g) Signs, advertising the sale or rental of the property upon which the sign is located. 
(h) Public utility facilities. 
(g)(i) Farmworker housing consisting of no more than 36 beds in group quarters or 12 units 
or spaces designed for use by a single family or household  
27.60.040 SPECIAL USES. 
The following uses may also be permitted if their site locations and proposed development 
plans are first approved, as provided for in Chapters 27.06 through 27.12, 27.62, 27.74, 27.78 and 
27.80: 
(a) Mining, dredging, loading, and hauling of sand, shells, salt, dirt, gravel or other 
aggregate, but not including equipment, buildings or structures for screening, refining, crushing, 
mixing, washing or storage. 
(b) Railroad Rights-of-Way and Trackage. Airports or aircraft landing fields. Radio and 
television towers, commercial. 
(c) Filling of lowland with noncombustible material free from refuse and food wastes. 
(d) Sanitary land fill, when operated or supervised by the City. 
(e) Kennels, commercial, and animal hospitals.

--- page 63 ---
(f) Public service uses: 
(g) Filtration plant, pumping station, and water reservoir; 
(h) Sewage treatment plant; 
(i) Other governmental uses. 
(i)(j) Temporary farmworker housing consisting of more than 36 beds in group quarters or 
more than 12 units or spaces designed for use by a single family or household. 
27.60.050 CONDITIONS OF USE. 
No horses, cattle, or other domestic animals shall be bred, raised, or maintained within 500 
feet of any residential district as established in this zoning title. 
Article II Open Space Districts 
27.60.090 SPECIAL USES. 
The following uses may also be allowed if a special use permit is approved: 
(a) Detached accessory structures, other than secondary units, containing more than two 
plumbing fixtures or waste lines; 
(b) Swimming pools, hot tubs and spas located in required front yard or street side yard; 
(c) Secondary units subject to provisions of Chapter 27.19; 
(d)(c) Cemeteries and mausoleums; 
(e)(d) Churches, convents, parish houses, and monasteries; 
(f)(e) Community services, including, but not limited to, libraries, parks, playgrounds, and 
community centers; 
(g)(f) Public and private educational facilities; 
(h)(g) Day care centers serving more than six persons or family day care centers serving 
more than 14 children; 
(i)(h) Philanthropic and eleemosynary uses; 
(j)(i) Public utility facilities; and

--- page 64 ---
(k)(j) Temporary real estate sales offices for a period not to exceed the duration of the 
construction and sale of homes within the subdivision wherein the sales office is to be located.

--- page 65 ---
City of San Mateo
Multiple Family and Mixed-use Residential Development 
Projects Submitted within previous Five Years
*Note – This list does not include mixed-use projects with more than 10,000 square feet 
of commercial floor area.
Project Name
# of Units
Development Phase
328 Tilton
4
PA Under Review
1 Hayward
18
PA Approved
Nazareth Vista (616 S B St)
48
PA Approved
1919 O'Farrell
49
PA Approved
222 S Fremont
50
PA Under Review
Bay Meadows MU3
67
PA Approved
Hillsdale Terraces
68
PA Approved
Gateway (668 E 3rd St)
125
Preliminary Application
1218 Monte Diablo
75
Completed PA Preapplication
Waters Park
140
Completed
715 N San Mateo Drive
181
Preliminary Application
Hayward Park (401 Concar Dr)
192
PA Approved
Kiku Crossing (480 E. 4th Ave)
225
Completed
477 E Hillsdale
230
Completed Pre-App
1650 S. Amphlett Blvd
256
Preliminary Application
1855 S Norfolk
260
PA Under Review
Peninsula Heights (Campus Dr)
290
Under Construction

--- page 66 ---
Survey Results: Unit Count Thresholds for Administrative Approval
150
50
39
30
25
25
14
10
10
5
4
4
4
4
2
1
1
1
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
Fairfield (Area Plan)
Pleasanton
Livermore (Specific Plan)
Brisbane (High Density)
Fairfield 
San Mateo
Brisbane (Low Density)
Vallejo
Antioch (Overlay Zone)
Los Altos
Livermore
Walnut Creek
San Carlos
Benicia
Emeryville
Antioch 
Colma 
Half Moon Bay
Average for Cities 
with ODS = 23
Average for 
All Cities = 13

--- page 67 ---
1 of 9
Zoning Code Amendments –
Implementation of Housing Element 
Policies, and 
General Plan Ballot Measure T
Manira Sandhir, AICP, Planning Manager
Steve Golden, Principal Planner
February 11, 2025
Planning Commission

--- page 68 ---
2 of 9
San Mateo Housing Element (2023-2031)
• Adopted on May 20, 2024, certified by the State 
Housing and Community Development Department 
(HCD) on July 23, 2024. 
• Five goals to support compliance with state law and to 
achieve the City’s RHNA – Supporting Production, 
Preservation, Protection, Promotion, and Affirmatively 
Furthering Fair Housing
• Includes 53 policies with 150 implementation actions.
• Numerous Housing Element policies and programs that 
require Zoning Code Amendments – Policy H1.20 
addressed General Plan implementation and Measure T

--- page 69 ---
3 of 9
Strive San Mateo General Plan 2040 Update
• Council adopted General Plan 2040 in March 2024;  
created capacity for at least 10,000 new housing 
units and increased the base densities in the 10 
Study Areas by at least 25 du/ac and height limits by 
at least two stories. (Policy H1.20) 
•
Increased capacity by 19,760 units citywide
•
Base densities in study areas increased by 50-80 du/ac
•
Height limits in study areas increased by up to 3 stories
• Measure T passed by voters in November 2024 to 
allow for the increased heights and densities in 
General Plan 2040 (Policy H1.20)

--- page 70 ---
4 of 9
Housing Element Implementation
Zoning Code Amendments Completed
Amended the Zoning Code to allow residential projects with up to 25 units to be 
approved administratively. (Policy H1.6) – Nov 2023
Adopted Objective Design Standards for multi-family residential projects and mixed-use 
projects with a residential component. (Policy H1.8) – Nov 2023
Amended the Zoning Code to establish a By-Right designation for housing sites reused 
from prior Housing Elements for housing projects that propose a minimum of 20% 
affordable units. Zoning for these sites must be at least 30 units/acre to meet default 
density requirements for lower-income households per Gov. Code Section 65583.2(c). 
(Policy H1.10) – July 2024

--- page 71 ---
5 of 9
Proposed Zoning Code Amendments
I.
Housing Element Policy 
Implementation/State Law 
Compliance
II.
Council Direction on 
Increasing Administrative 
Approval Threshold for 
Housing Projects
III. General Plan and Measure T 
Consistency

--- page 72 ---
6 of 9
I. Housing Element Policy Implementation and 
State Law Compliance
Allow residential uses as a permitted use in commercial districts (C1, C2 and C3) and office districts 
(E1 and E2) (Policy H1.7) (HE Commitment)
Add a definition for single room occupancy (SRO) and amend the Zoning Code to allow SROs in the 
R4 District (will also apply to R5, R6 and Downtown Districts with an R overlay) (Policy H1.7) (Govt 
Code, HE Commitment)
Eliminate the need for special use permits for multiple-family housing in mixed-use zoning districts 
(Policy H1.7) (HE Commitment)
Remove Chapter 27.17 Manufactured Homes and simplify development standards for manufactured 
homes on a permanent foundation to be the same as single-family homes (Policy H1.7) (HE 
Commitment).
Remove any prohibitions of accessory dwelling units (ADUs) in zoning districts as a permitted use 
per state law (Policy H1.7) (Govt Code)

--- page 73 ---
7 of 9
Add new zoning code terms and definitions related to housing and update existing 
definitions to add clarity and be consistent with state law. (Policies H1.7, H1.13, H1.14, 
H1.15, H1.16, and H3.7) (Govt Code)
Allow group homes and residential care facilities for people with special needs in all 
residential zones and only subject to those objective standards that apply to other 
residential uses of the same type in the same zone in conformance with state law. (Policy 
H1.13) (Govt Code)
Define and allow farmworker housing within the Agricultural District consistent with state 
law (Policy H1.16) (Govt Code)
Modify the emergency shelter definition and add development standards to the definition. 
Add new terms and definitions for supportive housing and low-barrier navigation centers. 
Allow for emergency shelters, supportive housing, and low-barrier navigation centers in 
certain zoning districts per state law and/or staff recommendation. (Policy 3.7) (Govt Code)
I. Housing Element Policy Implementation and
State Law Compliance

--- page 74 ---
8 of 9
II. Council Directed – 
Proposed Zoning Code Update
•
November 2023 - Council directed staff to 
explore an increased administrative approval 
threshold for housing projects consistent with 
Objective Design Standards (ODS). 
•
Staff research identified opportunities to 
increase approval threshold.
•
Proposed amendments would: 
•
Modify the Powers and Duties of the Zoning 
Administrator (ZA) to review and take final 
action on proposed residential development 
projects that are consistent with the ODS 
with up to 50 units (increasing threshold 
from 25)
•
Modify the Planning Commission’s approval 
authority for residential development 
projects that meet the ODS to 51+ units

--- page 75 ---
9 of 9
150
50
39
30
25
25
14
10
10
5
4
4
4
4
2
1
1
1
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
Administrative Approval Threshold 
Background Research
Average for Cities 
with ODS = 23
Average for All 
Cities = 13

--- page 76 ---
10 of 9
Project Name
# of Units
328 Tilton
4
1 Hayward
18
Nazareth Vista (616 S B St)
48
1919 O'Farrell
49
222 S Fremont
50
Bay Meadows MU3
67
Hillsdale Terraces
68
Gateway (668 E 3rd St)
125
1218 Monte Diablo
75
Waters Park
140
715 N San Mateo Drive
181
Hayward Park (401 Concar Dr)
192
Kiku Crossing (480 E. 4th Ave)
225
477 E Hillsdale
230
1650 S. Amphlett Blvd
256
1855 S Norfolk
260
Peninsula Heights (Campus Dr)
290
4-6 stories 
in height
ODS – Design Requirements for 
Mid-Rise Category 
Administrative Approval Threshold 
Background Research

--- page 77 ---
11 of 9
•
Update existing sections of the Zoning Code 
relating to the implementation of Measure T 
and General Plan Consistency
•
Incorporate the uses, densities, intensities, 
and heights specified in Land Use Element of 
the General Plan 2040 where they may 
conflict with the existing Zoning Code 
•
Table LU-1 – Land Use Designations
•
Conforms to provisions of State Housing Crisis 
Act where General Plan and Zoning may have 
conflicts
III. General Plan 2040 Consistency – 
Proposed Zoning Code Amendments

--- page 78 ---
12 of 9
Housing Element Implementation 
Future Zoning Code Amendments
•
Update Zoning Code Standards to support housing production including 
excluding covered parking and other elements as needed from Floor Area 
Ratio (FAR) calculation for housing projects with affordable units (Policy 
H1.7) (HE Commitment)
•
Amend the Zoning Code to reduce off-street parking requirements for 
residential units and other parking related requirements and make 
recommendations to reduce or eliminate any other parking related 
requirements identified as a constraint. (Policy H1.7) (HE Commitment)
•
Evaluate setting minimum densities in mixed-use zoning districts (Policy 
H1.9) (HE Commitment).

--- page 79 ---
13 of 9
CEQA Evaluation & Public Comments
• Proposed to be Categorically Exempt per CEQA Guidelines Section 
15183, Projects Consistent With A Community Plan Or Zoning
• Public Notices posted to Newspaper, Planning eNewsletters, Housing 
Programs and Policy email group, and the Planning Division “What’s 
Happening” webpage
• No public comments received (to-date)

--- page 80 ---
14 of 9
Staff Recommendations
• Recommend to the City Council findings that the Ordinances are 
exempt from further environmental review pursuant to California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Section 15183 (Projects Consistent 
With A General Plan or Zoning)
• Recommend to the City Council adoption of an Ordinance amending 
the Zoning Code to Implement the Housing Element (2023-2031)
• Recommend to the City Council adoption of an Ordinance amending 
existing sections of the Zoning Code relating to implementation of 
Measure T and General Plan consistency

--- page 81 ---
15 of 9
Thank you
Manira Sandhir, AICP
Planning Manager, Planning Division
msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org
Steve Golden
Principal Planner, Planning Division
sgolden@cityofsanmateo.org