--- page 1 ---
HOMES
OBITUARIES
LEGAL NOTICES
EPAPER
https://www.daytondailynews.com/tncms/asset/editorial/01aa7687-f68e-5443-b102-d98dd38ed9b6
FEATURED
City covers all Flock cameras amid program suspension
Sydney Dawes - Staff Writer
May 27, 2026
A Flock camera in downtown Dayton is among automatic license plate readers covered in Dayton following the
suspension of the city’s fixed-site program. SYDNEY DAWES / STAFF
Dayton workers have placed bags over the city’s Flock cameras.

--- page 2 ---
This follows the city’s suspension of use of its Flock cameras — a type of automatic license
plate reader that generates data that can be accessed by departments all over the country —
after realizing its data was being scanned for immigration reasons, in violation of city policy. A
Dayton Daily News investigation found other area police departments allow their data to be
accessed for immigration purposes.
A few cameras in the Third Street and Courthouse Plaza area — one in front of Dayton City Hall
— were covered in black plastic bags Monday evening. A city spokesperson confirmed
Wednesday that all cameras have been covered.
The city’s program includes 72 fixed-site ALPR cameras. They capture the make, model and
color of passing vehicles, as well as other visual details, like damage or alterations, such as
broken taillights and aftermarket rims or wheels. They send real-time alerts when license plate
numbers match a reported stolen vehicle or a car being sought by law enforcement. This
technology is mounted to a pole or traffic signal and is often powered by solar panels.
Privacy advocacy groups say ALPRs are a powerful mass surveillance tool that has a grave
potential for misuse, since the information they collect can be accessed with little to no
accountability. Police officials claim they provide valuable evidence in criminal investigations
that could otherwise go unsolved.
Dozens of community members have addressed Dayton’s city commission at its meetings this
past month, with speakers sharing outrage over the May announcement that a policy violation
in the city’s Flock camera system resulted in more than 7,000 searches related to immigration
enforcement made by outside agencies.
Representatives of the city manager’s office have said the suspension of the Flock camera
program means the cameras have not been active. The Dayton Police Department worked with
the city to cover the cameras — an act to mitigate concerns from the community.
City leaders during their May 20 commission meeting discussed covering the cameras as the
city weighs what will happen to the cameras during the program’s suspension. Dayton city
commissioners have called for the removal of the cameras.

--- page 3 ---
Sydney Dawes
Staff Writer
“I join my colleagues in requesting the Flock cameras be taken down. I think we’re working
through how soon we can do that,” Commissioner Darius Beckham said during the
commission’s Wednesday, May 20, meeting.
The city has also shared an information guide about ALPRs. There, city officials have stated
their next steps. This includes hiring an independent company to conduct a full audit, hosting
engagement sessions and collecting survey data.
“Once the audit is complete, the City will publish findings and recommendations,” according to
the city’s ALPR FAQ. “The City Commission will make final decision on ALPR camera use.”
Flock is a leading maker of ALPR technology. Not all ALPR systems allow captured data to be
stored and shared with other departments to the same extent.
The Dayton Police Department, the Montgomery County Sheriff’s Office and other regional
police departments denied Dayton Daily News requests, made under Ohio public records law,
that seek to obtain audit information showing how those agencies are sharing Flock ALPR data.
Officials say the records are confidential and exempt from public records law. This news outlet
is disputing those assertions.
Commission to decide next steps after an independent audit.
Flock cameras: How they work and why some are concerned
Updated May 28, 2026