source: packet.pdf
sha256: 241647d316f8a02b862f5dbbb47e5a19fada3b9d2a0ced5fea17dc400d1ffabf
pages: 15
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Senior Advisory Commission
Regular Meeting
November 10, 2025
4:00 PM
San Mateo Senior Center 
2645 Alameda de las Pulgas 
San Mateo, CA 94403
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Ellen Wang, Chair
Anna Cwirko-Godycki, Vice Chair
Tom Lease
Karl Lorenz
Susan Rowinski
Ellie Chiu – Youth Commissioner
Pranav Sathish – Youth
Commissioner
 
PACKET
CALL TO ORDER
 
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
CEREMONIAL
 
1.
Introduce and Welcome Youth Commissioners, Ellie Chiu and Pranav Sathish
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
2.
Senior Advisory Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the Regular meeting of September 8, 2025.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the Commission at this time.
State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff
for follow up. Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be
provided later in the agenda.
NEW BUSINESS
 
3.
​Age-Friendly Business Certification Pilot Program – Update​
Receive a presentation on pilot program for Age-Friendly Business Certification.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS FROM COMMISSIONERS AND STAFF
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments and requests for future agenda items.
 
1 of 15

--- page 2 ---
ADJOURNMENT
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Commission meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: seniorcommissionmailbox@cityofsanmateo.org until 12 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form and submit to the recording secretary.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate
in this meeting may contact the Parks and Recreation Administrative Office at (650) 522-7400 or by email
at parksandrecreation@cityofsanmateo.org.Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 15

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 
File ID: 25-10497
TO:
Senior Advisory Commission
FROM:
Joanne Magrini
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
November 10, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Senior Advisory Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Regular meeting of September 8, 2025.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Regular Meeting Minutes 9.8.2025.
STAFF CONTACT
Ashley Snodgrass , Administrative Technician
asnodgrass@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7403
3 of 15

--- page 4 ---
Senior Advisory Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 9/8/25
1
CALL TO ORDER 
Chair Wang called the meeting to order at 4:04 PM.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
ROLL CALL
Present: 
Chair Wang, Vice Chair Cwirko-Godycki, Commissioners Lease and Rowinski 
Absent:        Commissioner Lorenz
Commissioner Lorenz arrived at 4:08 PM.
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Introduce and Welcome New Administrative Technician, Lauren Allen
Community Services Manager, Zachary Silva, introduced new Administrative Technician, Lauren Allen.
2.
Senior Advisory Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the Regular meeting of July 14, 2025.
Commissioner Lorenz arrived at 4:08 PM.
Commissioner Rowinski made a motion to approve the minutes with an amendment to Item 3. Approval of Minutes, 
which states she abstained from the vote.
Moved: Rowinski Seconded: Lease
Ayes: Wang, Cwirko-Godycki, Lease, Lorenz, Rowinski
Noes: None
Absent: None
Motion passed 5-0.
PUBLIC COMMENT 
None.
NEW BUSINESS
3.
Annual Parks Survey - Informational
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Ellen Wang, Chair 
Anna Cwirko-Godycki, Vice Chair 
Tom Lease
Karl Lorenz
Susan Rowinski 
City of San Mateo
Regular Meeting Minutes
Senior Advisory Commission
Monday, September 8, 2025
Regular Meeting 4:00 PM
Senior Center 
2645 Alameda de las Pulgas
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
4 of 15

--- page 5 ---
Senior Advisory Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 9/8/25
2
Golf Services Manager, Kevin Kobayashi, presented the results of the Annual Parks Survey.
Public Comment: 
None.
Commissioners asked clarifying questions and made comments.
4.
Senior Programming - Informational
Community Services Manager, Zachary Silva, and Community Services Coordinator, Adeline Jones, presented an 
update on Senior Programming.
Public Comment: 
None.
Commissioners asked clarifying questions and made comments.
Commissioner Lease left the meeting at 5:35 PM.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Vice Chair Cwirko-Godycki announced multiple upcoming programs on malnutrition with older adults. Chair Wang, Vice 
Chair Cwirko-Godycki, Commissioner Lorenz, and Commissioner Rowinski requested data on households with older 
adults and older adults with disabilities, a written document that clarifies future agenda items, and a presentation on 
neighborhood watch. Chair Wang, Vice Chair Cwirko-Godycki, and Commissioner Rowinski asked clarifying questions on 
the Brown Act and hybrid commission meetings. Community Services Manager, Zachary Silva, announced the City 
Council approval of the Youth Commissioners to the Senior Advisory Commission Ordinance adoption and announced 
future agenda items, including the Age Friendly Business Pilot Certification update and a home delivery service through 
San Mateo Public Library.
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 6:16 PM.
SUBMITTED BY:
  _______________________________
  Ashley Snodgrass, Recording Secretary
5 of 15

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 25-10574
TO:
Senior Advisory Commission
FROM:
Joanne Magrini
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
November 10, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Age-Friendly Business Certification Pilot Program – Update 
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a presentation on pilot program for Age-Friendly Business Certification.
BACKGROUND:
In October 2020, the City of San Mateo committed to becoming an Age-Friendly City by joining the AARP Age-Friendly 
Communities Network. In November 2022, the City submitted its Age-Friendly Action Plan, developed by the Age-Friendly 
Task Force to guide key initiatives. A major initiative in the plan is the Age-Friendly Business Certification Pilot Program, 
which promotes inclusive business practices and recognizes businesses that serve people of all ages. 
In May 2024, the program application and certification logo were reviewed by the Senior Advisory Commission. Since then, 
with support from the Age-Friendly Coalition, the pilot has achieved an important milestone: 20 certified Age-Friendly 
businesses that range across commercial districts and retail sectors. This strong early participation demonstrates local 
interest and validates the program’s relevance to the business community. 
By launching with a diverse group of businesses, the City has been able to test the program’s processes, gather 
stakeholder feedback, and make ongoing refinements. We are bringing this update forward to share what we have learned 
through the pilot phase and present next steps as we prepare for broader implementation, including updates to the 
application, surveying current participants, and improving the program. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact related to this presentation. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Age-Friendly Business Program Participants 
STAFF CONTACT
6 of 15

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Jennifer Chen, Economic Development Manager
jchen@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7009
7 of 15

--- page 8 ---
https://footwearetc.com
https://sunriseseniorliving.com
https://sanmateolockworks.com
https://porterhousesanmateo.com
https://siteforsoreeyes.com
https://peninsulacrittercare.com
https://www.bakingartsandcoffee.com/
https://piazzaslovesfood.com
https://calartsupply.com
https://www.chillspotrendezvous.com/
https://peninsulafamilyservice.org
https://www.maverickjacks.com/
https://qbacubankitchen.com
https://www.bellanails.net/
Congratulations to the
City of San Mateo’s First
Age-Friendly 
Certified Businesses!
Support these businesses that make special efforts 
to support our older adults!
Add your business here! 
Scan the QR code to learn more about this program and apply or go to:
https://cityofsanmateo.org/4826/Age-Friendly-Business-Certification
https://www.sanmateoflorist.com/
8 of 15

--- page 9 ---
UPDATE ON AGE-FRIENDLY BUSINESS 
CERTIFICATION PILOT PROGRAM
Senior Advisory Commission
Monday, November 10, 2025
Presented By: 
Jennifer Chen, Economic Development Manager
Zack Silva, Community Services Manager
1
9 of 15

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO AGE-FRIENDLY
2
Timeline:
November 2020: The City of San Mateo designated as an              
Age-Friendly City for its commitment to being a welcoming 
community for people of all ages. 
November 2022: City submitted its Age-Friendly Action Plan to 
AARP. The Action Plan is a road map to completing the identified 
projects selected by the Age-Friendly Task Force. 
2022-2025: City to implement Action Plan and track progress.
10 of 15

--- page 11 ---
AGE-FRIENDLY BUSINESS 
CERTIFICATION
3
Develop and implement an Age-Friendly Business Certification program to acknowledge and 
promote businesses that make efforts to accommodate the needs of older adults.
-
The Age-Friendly Coalition conducted initial program research and preliminary 
outreach to gauge business interest.
-
Parks and Recreation included the initiative in its Department Work Plan and 
collaborated with the City Manager’s Office to launch the pilot.
-
In May 2024, the Senior Advisory Commission reviewed the program application and 
logo.
-
A soft launch took place in November 2024, in partnership with the City, Chamber of 
Commerce, and Downtown Association.
-
By November 2025, the program reached its goal of 20 certified businesses in the 
initial pilot phase.
11 of 15

--- page 12 ---
AGE-FRIENDLY BUSINESSES VERIFICATION 
PROCESS
• City and senior volunteers collaborated to promote the program and encourage business 
participation through enewsletters and social media.
• With limited response to initial outreach, staff and volunteers began direct, personal outreach to 
selected  businesses.
• Businesses submitted applications, and staff verified the business had a valid business license and 
located in the City.
• Age-Friendly Coalition Volunteers conducted site visits to confirm that application criteria were 
met.
• Certified businesses receive a window decal and are encouraged to highlight their “Age-Friendly” 
status on social media.
• The City, Age-Friendly Coalition, Chamber, and DSMA promote and recognize certified businesses 
on social media and City website.
4
12 of 15

--- page 13 ---
INITIAL CERTIFIED AGE-FRIENDLY BUSINESSES 
5
13 of 15

--- page 14 ---
KEY LESSONS LEARNED FROM PILOT
• Newsletter announcements alone did not generate sufficient awareness
• General awareness does not overcome “business busyness”
• One-on-one recruitment proved the most effective strategy during the pilot.
• Owners are not on-site; communication can be inconsistent
• Non-storefront businesses remain a gap, with only one of the first 20 participants 
represented.
• Some areas of the City are not yet represented
• Criteria are generally well-calibrated, but could benefit from clarifying edits.
• Verifiers reported positive and encouraging interactions with participating business 
owners.
6
14 of 15

--- page 15 ---
NEXT STEPS
7
•
Survey current participants asking for feedback on 
process
•
Commendation at City Council meeting on January 
26, 2026
15 of 15