source: packet.pdf
sha256: cf7fcec99a534dcc16cb9e8cd677f10a3e3c7c7d7bd5e6c61df7dca0482b25a5
pages: 5
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Park and Recreation Commission
March 4, 2020
7:00 PM
City Hall Conference Room C
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Heather Wolnick, Chair
Eric Holm, Vice Chair
J. Christopher Massey
Sean Williams
Vacant
AGENDA
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Approval of Minutes
Approve the Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes of February 5, 2020.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to
Speak" form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be
referred to staff for further review.
NEW BUSINESS
2.
Proposed Amendment to the Park Impact Fees for Affordable Housing Projects
Review the proposed amendment to the Municipal Code Section 26.64.030, Private Park and Recreational Facility
Credit to waive the minimum threshold requirement for 100% affordable housing projects in order for them to
receive credits against the Park Impact Fee for on-site recreational amenities and recommend adoption to the
City Council.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments and requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Agenda and background material can be viewed at City Hall, Parks and Recreation Department, 330 West 20th
Avenue, San Mateo (650) 522-7400 or on the City’s website www.cityofsanmateo.org
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this
meeting may contact the Parks and Recreation Department at (650) 522-7400 x 3 or parksandrecreation@cityofsanmateo.org.
Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
1 of 5

--- page 2 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Park and Recreation Commission 
February 5, 2020 
7:00 PM 
 
City Hall Conference Room C 
330 W. 20th  Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
 Heather Wolnick, Chair 
Vacant, Vice Chair 
Eric Holm 
J. Christopher Massey 
Sean Williams  
MINUTES 
CALL TO ORDER Chair Wolnick called the meeting to order at 7:00pm 
Pledge of Allegiance 
Roll Call Commissioners Present: Holm, Williams, and Wolnick. Excused: Massey 
Staff present: Sheila Canzian, Director, Bob Palacio, Community Services Manager, Nicholas Tsiorvas, Business 
Manager, Giovana Orozco, Recording Secretary 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If 
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately. 
1. 
Approval of Minutes  
Commissioner Holm moved, seconded by Commissioner Williams to approve the Park and Recreation Commission 
Special Meeting Minutes of January 8, 2020. Motion carried 3/0/1. 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
Mr. Adam Loraine of San Mateo expressed gratitude to the commission and the department for the job done on the 
King Field including the grand opening ceremony.  
NEW BUSINESS 
2. 
Proposed Parks and Recreation Fee Schedule for FY 2020-21 
Nicholas Tsiorvas, Business Manager presented the staff report and explained the Proposed Parks and Recreation 
Fee Schedule for FY 2020-21. Commissioners Williams and Wolnick asked questions regarding the In Lieu fees. Sheila 
informed commissioners that there is a larger study being conducted City Wide that will consider all of these issues 
and will provide a recommendation. Commissioner Wolnick moved, seconded by Commissioner Holm to approve 
the Parks and Recreation Fee Schedule for FY 2020-21. Motion carried 3/0/1. 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
• 
Bob Palacio, Community Services Manager provided an update on the January 8, 2020 agenda item, Review of 
Non-resident Surcharge policy. He informed commissioners that upon their recommendation, he spoke with the 
Redwood City Recreation Department regarding their decision to remove Non-resident surcharges and overall 
received positive feedback about the change. Bob notified commissioners that due to the timeline for the 
summer brochure the pilot is planned for Fall 2020.  
ADJOURNMENT Chair Wolnick adjourned the meeting at 7:27pm 
SUBMITTED BY: 
 
     Giovana Orozco   _                                                                       
Giovana Orozco, Recording Secretary  
  
2 of 5

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 20-0005
TO:
Park & Recreation Commission
FROM:
Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Department 
MEETING DATE:
March 04, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Proposed Amendment to the Park Impact Fees for Affordable Housing Projects
RECOMMENDATION:
Review the proposed amendment to the Municipal Code Section 26.64.030, Private Park and Recreational Facility Credit to 
waive the minimum threshold requirement for 100% affordable housing projects in order for them to receive credits 
against the Park Impact Fee for on-site recreational amenities and recommend adoption to the City Council. 
BACKGROUND:
The Municipal Code requires residential development projects to dedicate land or pay an in-lieu fee to mitigate their 
impacts on park and recreational facility use. This ensures that the City’s park and recreation facilities are able to 
adequately serve the population. The Municipal Code currently allows for credits against the Park Impact Fee for on-site 
amenities provided within projects that reduce the potential impact on park use by project residents. In order to qualify 
for the potential credits, the amount of on-site amenities must first meet a minimum threshold of at least 25% of the total 
project’s required acreage of dedicated park land. The types of amenities that qualify for these credits include play 
structures, barbecue/picnic areas, community rooms, pools, fitness rooms, etc. 
Affordable housing projects, defined as projects where 100% of the units are restricted to incomes of 120% Area Median 
Income or below, face development challenges since they are often built on constrained, infill lots. Given the challenges in 
financing affordable housing projects, and the public subsidies required, any ability to reduce project costs can go a long 
way towards financing additional affordable units. 
As an example, the affordable housing project proposed by MidPen Housing on the city-owned Downtown Opportunity 
Sites (at 480 E. 4th Avenue) will have 225 affordable rental units with dedicated space for a fitness room, community 
room, computer lab, and a courtyard with a play structure and barbecue area. Although the Downtown Affordable 
Housing project has multiple qualifying amenity spaces, it falls a few thousand square feet short of meeting the minimum 
threshold of 25% land dedication for amenity space and therefore would not be eligible for any credits against their 
required Park Impact Fee payment. 
At the November 18, 2019 Study Session, the City Council received a presentation on various options that could reduce the 
overall costs of the MidPen project. The City Council supported an option that would waive the 25% minimum threshold 
for qualifying on-site recreational amenities for all 100% affordable housing projects. This change will require a municipal 
code amendment. 
Proposed Amendment to Municipal Code 
3 of 5

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
26.64.030 PRIVATE PARK AND RECREATIONAL FACILITY SPACE CREDIT.
(a) Partial Credit Available. Where private park and recreational facility space is provided in a development and such 
space is held in common ownership and is to be privately owned and maintained, partial credit, not to exceed a 
maximum of 50%, may be allowed against the requirement of land dedication or payment of fees in-lieu thereof.
(b) Requirements. Credits may be given for facilities included on the list of private park and recreation facilities 
approved for credit by resolution of the City Council. Facilities that fall within two or more of the classifications set 
forth in the resolution will be placed in the category that best fits the potential use of the facility. There will be no 
double credits for facilities. In order for private park and recreational facilities to be eligible for credit, the Parks and 
Recreation Director or designee must determine that it is in the public interest to do so, that the proposed private 
park and recreational facilities and their design and location are appropriate for the proposed development and all 
of the following requirements are met:
(1) The proposed private park and recreational facility space equals at least 25% of the acreage of the total 
parkland dedication requirement, except that residential development projects, which are 100% affordable to 
low and moderate income households, will have no minimum threshold.  “Low or moderate income” 
households means persons and families whose income does not exceed 120 percent of area median income, as 
defined in Health and Safety Code section 50093.”
If the proposed amendment to the Municipal Code is adopted, the MidPen would be the first project to qualify for the 
waiver and receive credits against the Park Impact Fee. Allowing the project’s dedicated space for amenities to qualify for 
credit against the Park Impact Fee will reduce the estimated $4.5 million impact fee by approximately $335,000. 
The Commission has previously been briefed that an overall assessment of park impact fees is anticipated as part of the 
broader review of all developer impact fees that is being led by the Community Development Department. In order to 
finalize the financing strategy for the Mid-Pen project and not knowing the timeline for the larger impact fee study, staff 
supports the proposed amendment at this time. 
Staff seeks feedback and direction on the proposed Municipal Code amendment from the Parks and Recreation 
Commission. Staff plans to incorporate the Commission’s feedback prior to returning to City Council for final consideration.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The reduction of Park Impact Fees that will result from this code amendment is hard to quantify since it is not known how 
many 100% affordable projects will be built in the future that will use this Municipal Code provision and how large a credit 
they may be eligible for. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This proposed Municipal Code amendment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it 
will not cause a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Denise Garcia, Management Analyst I 
dgarcia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7003 
4 of 5

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Sandra Council, Housing Manager 
scouncil@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7223
5 of 5