source: packet.pdf
sha256: b616123df59c9c0cdcaf3bc87704a65f90ed33c406858aeb501859d94b156afe
pages: 143
ocr_pages: 10
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission 
July 26, 2022
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Margaret Williams, Chair
John Ebneter, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
Martin Wiggins
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO THE GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS
WHICH SUSPEND CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE BROWN ACT.
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: July 26, 2022
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 842 3975 1177      Passcode: 882803
The Planning Commission meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's
jurisdiction that are not on the agenda.  Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of
15 minutes for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's
jurisdiction. The Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the
agenda, but shall refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 of the San Mateo
Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those issues raised at the
public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing. Some public
hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
 
1.
S. Fremont Street Vacant Lot - Special Use Permit for Off-Site Construction Staging (PA-2021-073)
Adopt a Resolution approving a Special Use Permit for the use of a vacant lot for construction material storage
and worker parking associated with the active construction project 200 S. Fremont Street, and determine the
project qualifies for a Categorical Exemption under Class 4, Section 15304 from further environmental review
under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) based on the Findings for Approval and as conditioned in
the Conditions of Approval.

--- page 2 ---
2.
31-57 South B Street – Zoning Reclassification Request – C1-2/R5 to CBD (PA-2022-002)
Recommend to the City Council adoption of an Ordinance to approve a Zoning Reclassification for the property at
31-57 South B Street from C1-2/R5 to CBD and determine the project qualifies for a Categorical Exemption from
further environmental review under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).  
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be
made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.For
transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Planning Division Office at (650) 522-7212 or planning@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 22-6407
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
July 26, 2022 
SUBJECT:
S. Fremont Street Vacant Lot - Special Use Permit for Off-Site Construction Staging (PA-2021-073)
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution approving a Special Use Permit for the use of a vacant lot for construction material storage and worker 
parking associated with the active construction project 200 S. Fremont Street, and determine the project qualifies for a 
Categorical Exemption under Class 4, Section 15304 from further environmental review under the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) based on the Findings for Approval and as conditioned in the Conditions of Approval.
BACKGROUND:
The applicant and property owner, Fremont Terrace Associates, submitted a formal Planning Application on February 14, 
2022 for use of a vacant lot located at the northwest corner of S. Fremont Street and E. 3rd Avenue for construction 
materials storage and worker parking associated with the active construction project of 200 S. Fremont Street (PA-2015-
048). The application is for a Special Use Permit (SUP) to allow off-site construction staging on the adjacent property, 
based on the Findings for Approval and subject to the Conditions of Approval in Attachment 1.
The construction staging is associated with 200 S. Fremont Street, a proposed 15-unit residential condominium building 
that was approved on November 21, 2016. When construction initiated in July 2021, staff received numerous public 
comments regarding disruptive construction activities occurring on the project site. At that time, staff observed large dirt 
piles, lack of tree protection measures and a construction trailer located on the vacant lot that were not reviewed nor 
approved by the previous planning application. On January 18, 2022, the original project contractor withdrew from the 
project and all building permits associated with 200 S. Fremont Street were placed on hold until a replacement contractor 
was identified. The applicant was then advised to resolve all site maintenance violations and apply for the Special Use 
Permit, as required by Municipal Code Section 27.74.020, to ensure proper site management protocols were in place prior 
to further use of the vacant lot for construction staging.
Site Description
The project site consists of a 0.46-acre (20,134 square-foot) corner parcel that is bounded by E. 3rd Avenue on the south 
and S. Fremont Street on the west. In addition to the adjacent active construction project on the north, surrounding uses 
include three to four-story tall multi-family residential buildings located east, north and south of the project site. There are 
one and two-story tall single-family residences immediately west of the project site. The San Mateo Caltrain station is 
located 0.4-miles to the west of the project site. A location map showing the project site’s vicinity is included as 
Attachment 2.
The site was previously used as a Chevron gasoline station. The State Water Resources Control Board GeoTracker

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Database1 notes the site as a former Leaking Underground Storage Tank (LUST) Cleanup case site that was completed and 
closed on June 28, 1999. The site has remained vacant since and is enclosed by a chain-link fence. In 2014, the site also 
served as temporary off-site construction staging for the Metropolitan Apartment renovation project after receiving 
approval of a Special Use Permit.
DISCUSSION:
Project Description
The applicant proposes construction staging off-site at the adjacent vacant lot for the duration of the 200 S. Fremont 
Street project’s construction, which includes a temporary office trailer, materials storage, and construction worker 
parking. All construction activities will be managed by the project replacement contractor, ESA Construction. The project 
schedule estimates off-site construction staging through May 31, 2023, when construction of 200 S. Fremont Street project 
is expected to be complete. A Construction Management Plan detailing all proposed staging, worker parking, pedestrian 
safety measures, and traffic control, is included as Attachment 3.
Site Logistics
The site is enclosed by a six-foot tall chain-link fence and contains large mounds of soil that were excavated from the 
adjacent 200 S. Fremont Street site in July 2021. The applicant has been instructed to properly cover and manage the 
stockpile soil to comply with the City’s Stormwater Management and Discharge rules and regulations. The applicant has 
stated that the soil will be used for future backfill along the underground garage of 200 S. Fremont Street to provide 
structural support. The contractor and applicant shall also be responsible for properly disposing of any remaining soil that 
are not used as backfill in accordance with Best Management Practice (BMP) measures. Staff also confirmed with the San 
Mateo County Groundwater Protection Program that the soil is not considered contaminated. 
After removal of the stockpile soil, the site will be reconfigured to provide 35 parking stalls on-site, including one 
accessible stall, to ensure adequate construction worker parking throughout the project duration. A 192 square-foot 
temporary office trailer will also be placed onsite to provide secure storage and meeting room for the contractor. A 
parking and staging plan is included as Exhibit B in Attachment 3.
The applicant has updated their Construction Management Plan to provide the public with advance notification of any 
major deliveries, road detours, and lane closures to occur in the project vicinity. This includes email (opt-in) newsletters 
and distribution of physical notices to all residences that are directly affected by the street closures or delays. During 
sidewalk closures, the contractor will setup barricade signage and have employees serve as traffic control personnel to 
redirect pedestrian traffic at three locations: driveway access at S. Fremont Street, intersection of S. Fremont Street and 
2nd Avenue and the primary hauling access point at 2nd Avenue. The Pedestrian and Traffic Management Plan are included 
as Exhibit C in Attachment 3.
Tree Protection Plan
The project requires a Tree Protection Plan for any construction activity that will occur near a Protected Tree, in 
accordance with Municipal Code Section 13.40.080. The Municipal Code defines “Protected Tree” as any heritage tree or 
street tree, and includes any oak tree with a trunk diameter of ten (10) inches or greater, and any other tree species with a 
trunk diameter of fifteen (15) inches or greater, when measured at 54 inches above natural grade. A Tree Protection Plan 
is also required whenever construction activity occurs within 30 feet or a radius equal to ten times the diameter of the 
Protected Tree trunk diameter.
The project site contains eight (8) existing trees, of which four (4) are considered Protected and require tree protection 
measures. Prior to commencing any construction staging activities, the applicant shall provide a letter and photographs to 
the City Arborist, verifying that all tree protection measures are in place. Recommended measures include protective 
fencing and staging of all construction materials and activities outside the Tree Protection Zone, as identified in the project 
Arborist Report and Tree Protection Plan (Attachment 4).
1 State Water Resources Control Board's GeoTracker Database. Accessed July 1, 2022, from 
https://geotracker.waterboards.ca.gov/profile_report.asp?global_id=T0608100611.

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
APPLICABLE CODE AND POLICY REVIEW:
General Plan and Zoning Code
The General Plan Land Use Diagram designates the project site as High Density Multi-Family. The project generally 
conforms to the goals and policies of the General Plan as the proposed construction staging is temporary in nature and 
supports an active housing construction project. A list of applicable General Plan policies and further discussion of the 
project’s compliance is included in Attachment 1 (Findings for Approval).
The project site is zoned R4-D (Multiple Family Dwellings for Downtown, Medium High Density), consistent with its General 
Plan Land Use designation. The project is subject to the development standards and list of permitted uses identified in 
Chapter 27.28 of the Municipal Zoning Code. A project data sheet listing the applicable development standards are 
included as Attachment 5, many of which remain unchanged because the project does not propose any new building or 
site improvements to the vacant lot. Therefore, the project is consistent with all City policies and Zoning Code 
requirements. 
Special Use Permit for Construction Staging
The applicant proposes construction staging off-site at the adjacent vacant lot for the duration of the 200 S. Fremont 
Street project’s construction. A Special Use Permit (SUP) is required given that off-site construction staging is not 
designated as a permitted or a special use in the R4-D zoning district. Municipal Code Chapter 27.74 authorizes the 
Planning Commission to grant an SUP for non-designated uses that “are so similar to any specifically allowed use in the 
district that are virtually identical in terms of impact and land use requirements.” The R4-D zoning district incorporates 
other permitted and special uses of the R1, R2 or R3 zoning district uses. A similar use is identified in the R1 zoning district, 
which permits “temporary buildings for construction purposes for a period not to exceed the duration of such 
construction” in Municipal Code Section 27.18.020(g). The use of this lot as construction staging to serve an adjacent 
active construction project would be similar in operation and impact to this permitted use.
Under the Special Use Permit provisions, the Planning Commission shall approve the application if all concerns regarding 
general health, safety and/or welfare of the community, noise, smoke, odor or noxious gas, dust, fumes, or traffic impacts, 
are found to be addressed. The project would be subject to conditions of approval related to noise control, dust control, 
and material hauling. Additionally, the project shall return the site to its original condition as a vacant lot prior to 
scheduling the final inspection for the 200 S. Fremont Street project. As such, staff’s evaluation of the proposal for 
construction staging off-site at the adjacent vacant lot is that the SUP findings for approval can be made and are discussed 
further within Attachment 1.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
The applicant held the required informal neighborhood meeting on October 25, 2021, with six members of the public in 
attendance. Attendees expressed concerns of construction hours, noise, vibration, and traffic closures associated with the 
200 S. Fremont Street project. A summary of the neighborhood informational meeting is included in Attachment 6. In 
response to these concerns, the applicant has updated their Construction Management Plan to provide a minimum seven-
day advance notice to the neighborhood regarding any traffic and noise impacts related to the construction project. The 
contractor will also provide an on-site complaint manager to promptly address and track public complaints and questions 
associated with the project.
Public comments submitted to staff prior to and during the formal planning application review are included in Attachment 
7. Public comments on the project generally pertain to site maintenance concerns, construction activities and timeline. 
Public comments received after publication of this report will be forwarded to the Planning Commission for review and 
consideration at the public hearing and posted to this item on the City’s Agendas & Minutes Public Meeting Portal as “Post 
Packet Public Comments.”
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
A Categorical Exemption, Class 4, Section 15304 (Minor Temporary Use of Land), is recommended for the project pursuant 
to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines. Qualification for the exemption includes temporary 
buildings and activities during construction that have negligible or no permanent effects on the environment. Since the

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
proposed use consists of construction materials storage and worker parking on a temporary basis, the project meets the 
qualifications for this categorical exemption. The project will also be subject to conditions of approval that pertain to 
noise, dust control and construction work hours at all times.
NOTICE PROVIDED
In accordance with Government Code Section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, this public 
hearing was noticed to the following parties more than ten days in advance of this Planning Commission meeting:
•
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 500 feet of the project site;
•
The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects;
•
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and,
•
The interested parties list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Draft Resolution with Findings and Conditions of Approval
Att 2 – Location Map
Att 3 – Construction Management Plan
Att 4 – Arborist Report
Att 5 – Project Data Sheet
Att 6 – Neighborhood Meeting Summary
Att 7 – Public Comments
STAFF CONTACT
Linda Ly, Associate Planner
lly@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7217

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2022)
RESOLUTION APPROVING A SPECIAL USE PERMIT FOR OFF-SITE CONSTRUCTION STAGING FOR 
A PROPERTY LOCATED AT S. FREMONT STREET AND E. 3rd AVE (APN 033163170); AND 
DETERMINE THE PROJECT QUALIFIES FOR A CATEGORICAL EXEMPTION FROM FURTHER 
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW UNDER CLASS 4, SECTION 15304 THE CALIFORNIA 
ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT (CEQA)
(PA-2021-073, S. FREMONT ST. VACANT LOT, SUP)
WHEREAS, Regan Catanzaro of Fremont Terrace Associates (herein referred to as the 
“Applicant”) submitted a planning application PA-2021-073 with the Planning Division for a 
Special Use Permit for off-site construction staging for a property located at S. Fremont Street 
and E. 3rd Avenue (APN: 033163170) (collectively referred to as “Project”) in the City of San Mateo 
(“City”); and
WHEREAS, the San Mateo City Charter and Municipal Code Section 27.74.020 authorizes 
the City Council to take final action on Special Use Permits for “other nondesignated uses which 
the Planning Commission concludes are so similar to any specifically allowed use in the (R4-D) 
district as to be virtually identical thereto in terms of impact and land use”; and
WHEREAS, approval of the applicant’s proposal is considered a “Project” for purposes of 
the California Environmental Quality Act, Pub. Resources Code §21000, et seq. (“CEQA”); and
WHEREAS, the City finds that the Project is categorically exempt from CEQA under Section 
15304; and
WHEREAS, the City finds the Project consistent with the applicable policies of the 
General Plan and other applicable policies;
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing for the Project on July 26, 
2022, duly 
noticed, at which all public comments were considered; and, 
 
WHEREAS, all applicable Conditions of Approval have been attached as Exhibit A.
 NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN 
MATEO, CALIFORNIA AS FOLLOWS:

--- page 8 ---
1.
The Planning Commission finds on the basis of the whole record before it that the 
Project will not have a significant effect on the environment and is therefore 
categorically exempt from the provisions of CEQA under CEQA Class 4, Section 15304 
as “minor temporary use of land,” because it consists of temporary placement of 
construction materials and worker parking, and involves negligible or no permanent 
effects on the environment; and,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN 
MATEO, CALIFORNIA AS FOLLOWS:
1. The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Land Use, Circulation, Conservation 
and Open Space, and Noise Elements of the City’s General Plan. 
a. The Project conforms to Policy LU 8.9 of the Land Use Element in that all 
construction activities shall adhere to best management practices to prevent 
pollution and protect public health, and have been included as conditions of 
approval, consistent with the City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge 
Control Rules and Regulations (Municipal Code Section 7.39).
b. In conformance with Policies C4.5 and C4.7 of the Circulation Element, the 
Project is required to restore roadways that are damaged by the Project’s 
construction activities. This includes roadways located within the Project 
general vicinity or along the designated haul route. The Project shall 
implement a Pedestrian Traffic Management Plan to ensure pedestrian safety 
and flow, when major deliveries, detours and land closures occur.
c.
Policy C/OS 6.3 of the Conservation and Open Space Element requires 
protection of  all heritage (Protected) trees during construction activity. The 
Project shall provide a Tree Protection Verification Letter demonstrating that 
all tree protection measures are properly implemented prior to utilizing the 
site for construction staging and parking.
d. The Project conforms to Policy N2.1 in that construction work hours, noise 
measures and monitoring have been included as conditions of approval, in 
accordance with Municipal Code Section 23.06.061.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF 
SAN MATEO, DOES HEREBY RECOMMEND APPROVAL OF THE SPECIAL USE PERMIT FOR S. 
FREMONT STREET BASED UPON THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL AND THE 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL INCLUDED IN EXHIBIT A TO THIS RESOLUTION:

--- page 9 ---
1.
The Special Use Permit (Municipal Code Section 27.74.020) application to allow 
construction staging off-site at S. Fremont Street and associated Conditions of 
Approval are approved based on the following findings: 
a.
The proposed use of construction staging off-site for the active construction 
project is similar to the R1 District allowed use of temporary buildings for 
construction purposes for a period not to exceed the duration of construction. A 
condition of approval has been integrated that requires all temporary 
construction storage materials and temporary structures to be removed no later 
than the final inspection of the related construction project (200 S. Fremont 
Street, PA-2015-048).
b. The proposed use will not adversely affect the general health, safety and/or 
welfare of the community nor will it cause injury or disturbance to adjacent 
property by traffic or by excessive noise, smoke, odor, noxious gas, dust, glare, 
heat, fumes or industrial waste given that the use and operations of the site are 
required to be in compliance with all applicable Building Codes, Fire Codes, and 
the Municipal Code. The Project will also be subject to conditions of approval at 
all times during the construction of the related project pertaining to noise, dust 
control, and construction work hours.

--- page 10 ---
EXHIBIT A
CITY OF SAN MATEO PLANNING APPLICATION
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
PA-2021-073, S. FREMONT ST. VACANT LOT, SUP
 PARCEL # 033163170
 AS APPROVED BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON __________
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of 
approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance. 
Additional language within a condition may further define the timing of required compliance. 
Types of Building permits include Demolition, Shoring/Excavation, Foundation, and 
Superstructure.
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a DEMOLITION PERMIT, 
BUILDING PERMIT FOR SHORING OR FOUNDATION, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, 
whichever is issued first, or prior to the deadline specified in that condition.
Planning Division (PA)
1 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – This complete list of Conditions of Approval shall be 
reproduced onto the second sheet of all building permit plan sets. (PLANNING)
2 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – The applicant shall pay 
all outstanding planning application fees. (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
3 APPLICABLE BUILDING STANDARDS AND LOCAL CODES – All building permit plans 
shall demonstrate compliance with the applicable California Building Standards 
Codes and local amendments as adopted by the Building Division at the time of filing 
the building permit application. (BUILDING) 
Parks and Recreation Department (PA)
4 CLEAN UP TREE #19 - As indicated by the Project arborist,  remove or replace the 
netting and straw wattle from the trunk of tree #19 because the wattle had been 
present for months. The pile of soil in the critical root zone for this tree shall be 
removed avoiding any damage to the tree trunk, branches, and roots. Include 
photos of the cleanup in the Tree Protection Verification Letter. (CDD ARBORIST)
5 TREE PROTECTION VERIFICATION LETTER – To verify that all tree protection 
measures are properly implemented and readjusted (see tree #19), the applicant 
shall submit a tree protection verification letter prepared by the project arborist to

--- page 11 ---
PA-2021-073, S. FREMONT ST. VACANT LOT, SUP
As approved on __________
Page 2 of 9
the Building Division that includes photographs showing the tree protection 
installed. The letter shall also include a schedule of future inspections by the Project 
Arborist. The verification letter is subject to the review and satisfaction of the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (CDD ARBORIST)
Public Works Department (PA)
6 ENCROACHMENT PERMITS, BONDS, AND INSURANCE – The applicant shall obtain an 
encroachment permit, posting the required bonds and insurance, and provide a one 
(1) year warranty for all work to be done in the City's right of way or easements 
prior to any work being done. (PUBLIC WORKS)
7 STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PERMIT – The applicant shall obtain a 
Stormwater Pollution Prevention (STOPPP) Construction permit, paying the required 
fees and posting the required cash deposit, for all work associated with the 
stormwater pollution prevention program in accordance with San Mateo Municipal 
Code Chapter 7.39.170. The fee amount will be based upon the City Council 
resolution in effect at the time the Special Use Permit is approved. (PUBLIC WORKS)
8 TRAFFIC CONTROL & SITE LOGISTICS PLANS – The applicant shall submit traffic 
control plans for any impact to the right-of-way for each phase of operation, 
including pedestrian and bicycle detour plans as applicable. The traffic control plan 
shall comply with the most recent version of the California Manual of Uniform 
Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD) and the City’s Traffic Control Plan 
Requirements.
The applicant shall also submit a site logistics plan for each phase of operation. The 
plan, at a minimum, shall include estimated timeframes for implementation, 
duration, construction operations. (PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE 
SUPERSTRUCTURE.
Public Works Department (PA)
9 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS – An Encroachment Permit shall be required for all public 
improvements in the public right-of-way or easements. All public improvements 
shall be completed prior to the Certificate of Occupancy of the 200 S. Fremont 
Street project (PA-2015-048). 
The developer shall repair or replace all existing improvements not designated for

--- page 12 ---
PA-2021-073, S. FREMONT ST. VACANT LOT, SUP
As approved on __________
Page 3 of 9
removal and all new improvements that are damaged or removed because of 
developer's operations. Developer shall request a walk-through with the Public 
Works Construction Inspector before the start of construction to verify existing 
conditions.
The applicant shall have improvement plans prepared for all work in the public right 
of way or easements by a licensed civil engineer, whose signed engineer’s stamp 
shall appear on the plans. The improvement plans shall be included in the 
encroachment permit submittal and substantially conform to the approved planning 
application. Any changes to the improvements shall be approved by the Director of 
Public Works or designee at their sole discretion. All design assumptions and criteria 
shall be submitted. Project specifications shall be included for review.
All work shown on the improvement plans shall be inspected and approved by 
Public Works.
Quantities for items below are provided only to determine minimum bonding 
requirements for the encroachment permit. The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show the following public improvements in the public right of 
way: 
(A) SIDEWALK – The applicant shall replace to existing City standards sidewalk on 
South Fremont Street from the Northern property line going South for 
approximately twenty (20) feet. Sidewalk replacement shall be constructed per City 
Standard Drawing 3-1-141A. At the time the planning application was filed, a 
minimum of one hundred-eighty (180) square feet of sidewalk will need to be 
replaced.
(PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, 
ISSUANCE OF A TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, or ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE 
OF OCCUPANCY, whichever occurs first.
Planning Division (PA)
10 OFF-SITE CONSTRUCTION STAGING – The applicant shall return the adjacent lot 
intended for off-site construction staging (APN: 033163170) to a vacant lot in 
accordance with Municipal Code Chapter 7.48 prior to scheduling of the Planning 
Final inspection for the 200 S. Fremont Street project (PA-2015-048). The applicant 
shall remove all construction materials associated with the 200 S. Fremont Street 
project, including but not limited to all construction equipment, structures, and 
stockpile soil. (PLANNING)

--- page 13 ---
PA-2021-073, S. FREMONT ST. VACANT LOT, SUP
As approved on __________
Page 4 of 9
11 PLANNING FINAL INSPECTION – Upon completion of all construction and 
landscaping, the applicant shall request the Project Planner conduct a Planning Final 
inspection for  verification of compliance with all outstanding conditions of 
approval. The applicant shall contact the Project Planner to schedule each 
inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance of the requested inspection. 
(PLANNING)
Public Works Department (PA)
12 RESTORATION OF ROADWAY – Due to the anticipated project’s truck traffic, the 
applicant shall grind and overlay with 2.5 inches of asphalt concrete of the roadways 
anticipated to be damaged as a result of construction activities within the general 
area of the project or along the designated haul route. If the street abutting the 
property has been classified as being in a failed condition or a Pavement Condition 
Index (PCI) of 50 or below, the applicant shall reconstruct the street. Limits of the 
roadway repair shall be on South Fremont Street along the project frontage for half 
the width of the roadway, subject to the review and approval of the Director of 
Public Works or designee. (PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION 
PHASE OF THE PROJECT.
Building Division (PA)
13 CONSTRUCTION WORK HOURS – Construction shall occur only between the hours of 
7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 
p.m. on Saturday, and between 12:00 noon and 4:00 p.m. on Sundays and holidays. 
These hours do not apply to construction that takes place inside a completely 
enclosed building and does not exceed the exterior ambient noise level as measured 
10 feet from the exterior property lines. The applicant shall conform to the 
construction work hours to control traffic congestion, noise, and dust unless an 
exemption is granted in accordance with Municipal Code Section 23.06.061. 
(BUILDING)
Parks and Recreation Department (PA)
14 PROJECT ARBORIST INSPECTIONS – The Project Arborist shall submit a report to the 
Building Division within five business days after each of his/her inspection 
documenting the condition of trees, protection measures changes or adjustments, 
and/or any damages to Protected trees. (CDD ARBORIST)

--- page 14 ---
PA-2021-073, S. FREMONT ST. VACANT LOT, SUP
As approved on __________
Page 5 of 9
15 TREE PROTECTION MEASURES – All approved tree protection measures shall remain 
in place and be properly maintained during all phases of construction. The applicant 
or contractor shall notify the Project Arborist in advance when construction 
operations are to be performed within the Tree Protection Zone of protected trees. 
(e.g. trenching, excavation, grade changes, etc.) Adjustment of Tree Protection 
Measures requires approval from the City Arborist.  (CDD ARBORIST)
Public Works Department (PA)
16 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – The applicant shall perform all 
construction activities in accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management and 
Discharge Control Rules and Regulations (SMMC 7.39), and the San Mateo 
Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SMCWPPP) by reference. Detailed 
information can be located at: https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-stormwater-
pollution/with-new-redevelopment/construction-best-practices/ 
(PUBLIC WORKS)
17 CONSTRUCTION WORKER PARKING – The applicant shall abide by a construction-
parking plan that minimizes the effect of construction worker parking in the 
neighborhood and shall include an estimate of the number of workers that will be 
present on the site during the various phases of construction and indicate where 
sufficient off-street parking will be utilized and identify any locations for off-site 
material deliveries. Said plan shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or 
designee prior to issuance of City permits and shall be complied with at all times 
during construction. Failure to enforce the parking plan may result in suspension of 
the City permits. (PUBLIC WORKS)
18 HOLIDAY CONSTRUCTION MORATORIUM – Due to concerns for businesses within 
the vicinity of Hillsdale Mall and within the Downtown area during the holiday 
season (Monday prior to Thanksgiving to January 1), there shall be no construction 
activities within the right-of-way which would create lane closures, eliminate 
parking, create pedestrian detours, or other activities that may create a major 
disturbance as determined by the Director of Public Works or designee. Exceptions 
to this condition shall be made in writing to the Public Works Director or designee. 
For purposes of this condition, the limits of the Downtown area shall be defined as: 
between El Camino Real on the west and Delaware Street on the east, Tilton Avenue 
on the north, and Fifth Avenue on the south. The prohibition shall also include the 
3rd and 4th Avenue corridors between Delaware Street and U.S. 101. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)

--- page 15 ---
PA-2021-073, S. FREMONT ST. VACANT LOT, SUP
As approved on __________
Page 6 of 9
19 MATERIAL HAULING – For material delivery vehicles equal to, or larger than two-
axle, six-tire single unit truck (SU) size or larger as defined by FHWA Standards, the 
applicant shall submit a truck hauling route that conforms to City of San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 11.28.040 for the approval of the Director of Public Works 
or designee. The project sponsor shall require contractors to prohibit trucks from 
using “compression release engine brakes” on residential streets. The haul route for 
this project shall be: US 101 North/South to East 3rd Avenue to South Fremont 
Street to Site; Site to South Fremont Street to East 4th Avenue to US 101 
North/South, or as approved by the Director of Public Works or designee. A letter 
from the applicant confirming the intention to use this hauling route shall be 
submitted to the Department of Public Works, and approved, prior to the issuance 
of any City permits. All material hauling activities including but not limited to, 
adherence to the approved route, hours of operation, staging of materials, dust 
control and street maintenance shall be the responsibility of the applicant. All 
storage and office trailers shall be kept off the public right-of-way. Tracking of dirt 
onto City streets and walks will not be allowed. Entry and exit from the site will use 
rock or rumble strips to prevent tracking. The applicant shall provide an approved 
method of cleaning tires and trimming loads on site. Any job related dirt and/or 
debris that impacts the public right of way shall be removed immediately. No wash 
down of dirt into storm drains is allowed. Use of a sweeper is permissible as long as 
it operates dry (no water used, only vacuum). All material hauling activities shall be 
done in accordance with applicable City ordinances and conditions of approval. 
Violation of such may be cause for suspension of work. (PUBLIC WORKS)
20 PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES – The following provision to control 
traffic congestion, noise, and dust shall be followed during site excavation, grading 
and construction:
(A) Construction activities related to the issuance of any Public Works permit shall 
be restricted to the weekday between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Please note, 
however, that no work shall be allowed to take place within the City right-of-way 
after 5:00 p.m. In addition, no work being done under the issuance of a Public 
Works encroachment permit may be performed on the weekend unless prior 
approvals have been granted by Public Works. Earth haul and materials delivery to 
and from the site, including truck arrivals and departures to and from the site, will 
be prohibited between the weekday hours of 4:00 p.m.   5:30 p.m. Signs outlining 
these restrictions shall be posted at conspicuous locations on site. The signs shall be 
per the City Standard Drawing for posting construction hours. The sign shall be kept 
free of graffiti at all times. Contact the Public Works Department to obtain sample 
City Standard sign outlining hours of operation.

--- page 16 ---
PA-2021-073, S. FREMONT ST. VACANT LOT, SUP
As approved on __________
Page 7 of 9
The allowed hours of Public Works construction activities may be waived or 
modified through an exemption, for limited periods, if the Director of Public Works 
or designee finds that:
(i) The following criteria are met:
(a) Permitting extended hours of construction will decrease the total time needed to 
complete the project thus mitigating the total amount of noise associated with the 
project as a whole; or
(b) Permitting extended hours of construction are required to accommodate design 
or engineering requirements, such as a large concrete pour. Such a need would be 
determined by the project's design engineer and require approval of the Director of 
Public Works or designee. 
(c) An emergency situation exists where the construction work is necessary to 
correct an unsafe or dangerous condition resulting in obvious and eminent peril to 
public health and safety. If such a condition exists, the City may waive any of the 
remaining requirements outlined below.
(ii) The exemption will not conflict with any other condition of approval required by 
the City to mitigate significant impacts.
(iii) The contractor or owner of the property will notify residential and commercial 
occupants of property adjacent to the construction site of the hours of construction 
activity which may impact the area. This notification shall be provided three days 
prior to the start of the extended construction activity.
(iv) The approved hours of construction activity will be posted at the construction 
site in a place and manner that can be easily viewed by any interested member of 
the public.
The Director of Public Works or designee may revoke the exemption at any time if 
the contractor or owner of the property fails to abide by the conditions of 
exemption or if it is determined that the peace, comfort and tranquility of the 
occupants of adjacent residential or commercial properties are impaired because of 
the location and nature of the construction. The waiver application shall be 
submitted to the Public Works Construction Inspector ten (10) working days prior to 
the requested date of waiver.
(B) All construction vehicles shall be properly maintained and equipped with exhaust

--- page 17 ---
PA-2021-073, S. FREMONT ST. VACANT LOT, SUP
As approved on __________
Page 8 of 9
mufflers that meet State standards.
(C) Newly disturbed soil surfaces shall be watered down regularly by a water trucks 
or by other approved method maintained on site during all grading operations. 
Construction grading activity shall be discontinued in wind conditions that in the 
opinion of the Public Works Construction Inspector cause excessive neighborhood 
dust problems. Wash down of dirt and debris into storm drain systems will not be 
allowed.
(D) Construction activities shall be scheduled so that paving and foundation 
placement begin immediately upon completion of grading operation.
(E) All aggregate materials transported to and from the site shall be covered in 
accordance with Section 23114 of the California Vehicle Code during transit to and 
from the site. 
(F) Prior to issuance of any permit, the applicant shall submit any applicable 
pedestrian or traffic detour plans, to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works 
or designee, for any lane or sidewalk closures. The detour plan shall comply with 
Part 6, Temporary Traffic Control, of the State of California Manual of Uniform 
Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), 2012, and standard construction practices. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the project permitted by 
this planning application occupies the premises.
Planning Division (PA)
21 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATIONS CONFORMANCE AT ALL TIMES – All physical 
improvements, uses, and operational requirements authorized by the approved 
planning application shall, at all times that the use permitted by this planning 
application and planning application PA-2015-048 occupies the premises, 
substantially conform with the approved planning applications. This includes but is 
not limited to plans, materials, project description, and other items submitted as 
part of the approved planning applications. Any proposed modifications to the 
approved planning applications shall be reviewed and approved by the Community 
Development Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the proposed 
modifications. The Community Development Director, or his/her designee shall 
determine whether the proposed modifications substantially conform with the 
approved planning applications, or whether a planning application modification is 
required to be submitted to permit the proposed modifications, as required by 
Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications.  (PLANNING)

--- page 18 ---
PA-2021-073, S. FREMONT ST. VACANT LOT, SUP
As approved on __________
Page 9 of 9
City Attorney (PA)
22 INDEMNIFICATION – The applicant will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the 
City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from 
and against any costs, claims, or liabilities arising out of the approval of this planning 
application, including, without limitation, any award of attorney fees that might 
result from third party challenge.  If applicant is required to defend the City, the City 
shall retain the right to select the counsel who shall defend the City.  (CITY 
ATTORNEY)
23 PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.02.210-
Violations of Planning Application Conditions, any violation of any of the conditions 
of approval is unlawful and will subject the applicant to the penalties set forth in 
Chapter 1.04-General Penalty of the San Mateo Municipal Code as well as any other 
available legal remedies.  (CITY ATTORNEY)

--- page 19 ---
ATTACHMENT 2 – LOCATION MAP
PA-2021-073
S. Fremont St. Vacant Lot, SUP
Address:
No Site Address
Parcel Number:
033-163-170
FOR REFERENCE ONLY
 
 
Project Site
(Vacant Lot)
200 S. Fremont St.
(Active
Construction
Project)

--- page 20 ---
Construction Staging, Parking, Traffic, and Pedestrian
Management Plan 200 South Fremont Street, San Mateo 
200 South Fremont Street 
CONSTRUCTION STAGING, PARKING,
TRAFFIC, & PEDESTRIAN
MANAGEMENT PLAN
Fremont Terrace 
Associates 
San Mateo, CA 
May 2022 
Pagel 
-----------
-----------

--- page 21 ---
General Information 
Construction Staging, Parking, Traffic, and Pedestrian Management Plan
Exhibit A – Truck Haul Route 
Exhibit B – Parking and Staging plan 
1.
Construction plan during concrete form installation and concrete pour in below grade
garage level
2.
Construction plan after soil is back filled against below grade garage walls
3.
Parking and staging plan to be implemented after SUP approved
Exhibit C – Pedestrian & Traffic Management Plan
Exhibit D -Anticipated Maximum Construction Worker Count Per Day
Project Description
The Special Use Permit is being requested for the property at 222 S Fremont aka 727 E 3rd 
Avenue in order to provide construction parking and staging in relation to the construction of the 
project at 200 S Fremont St. This Construction Staging, Parking, Traffic, and Pedestrian plan will 
communicate the Contractor’s intent and means for maintaining a job site which at all times 
complies with best practice and applicable Conditions of Approval. Contractor will at all times 
conform to the hours of construction stipulated in the Conditions of Approval. The applicant has 
provided separately a construction timeline including relevant worker count estimates for 
reference.
Relevant Project: 15-unit condominium
Address: 200 S Fremont St 
Owner: Fremont Terrace Associates 
General Contractor: ESA Construction 
On- Site Representative: Eric Acosta esaconstruction@comcast.net, 650-759-4944 
Construction Staging, Parking, Traffic, and Pedestrian
Management Plan 200 South Fremont Street, San Mateo 
Page2
-----------
-----------

--- page 22 ---
CONSTRUCTION STAGING, PARKING, TRAFFIC, AND PEDESTRIAN MANAGMENT
The project general contractor intends to implement the following strategies to reduce, to the 
maximum extent feasible, traffic congestion [due to the construction of this project] and the effects of 
parking demand by construction workers during construction of this project. 
---------------- Page 3 
1)
Comprehensive traffic control measures, including scheduling of major truck trips and deliveries to
avoid peak traffic hours, detour signs if required, lane closure procedures, signs, cones for drivers,
and designated construction access/haul routes.
i)
See Exhibit A- Truck Haul Route
ii)
All major truck trips and deliveries will be scheduled to avoid peak traffic hours when
feasible and shall comply with hours per the Conditions of Approval, in order to mitigate
any negative traffic impacts to the neighborhood and maintain a safe working environment.
iii) If any lane closures are necessitated through the course of construction, all appropriate
traffic signs and procedures will be followed as required and recommended by the City of
San Mateo Public Works Department.
(1) All traffic control devices shall conform to the latest edition of the California Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices [California MUTCD].
(2) All traffic control devices will be removed from view when not in use.
(3) Trenches will be back filled or plated during non-work hours.
(4) Temporary "NO PARKING" signs will be posted 72 hours prior to commencing work in
the Public ROW and the City of San Mateo Police Department will be notified.
(5) Access to driveways will be maintained at all times.
(6) All Traffic Control Personnel shall be equipped with an orange vest [or a reflective vest
at night]. All flaggers shall also be equipped with a hard hat, C28 "STOP/SLOW" paddle
and shall be trained in the proper fundamentals of flagging traffic.
iv) If any parking space closures are required, Contractor will contact City of San Mateo Public
Works Department to secure necessary rights for parking space closures.
v)
All deliveries will access the project on the designated truck haul route.
2)
Notification procedures for adjacent property owners and public safety personnel regarding when
major deliveries, detours, and lane closures will occur. Notifications will be delivered via physical
notices and opt in email notifications. Instructions to the opt in email notification service will be
sent out via mailer and posted on site.
i)
Notification to adjacent property Owners of major deliveries will be made at least 7 days in
advance, and the routes for such deliveries will conform to the approved truck haul route.
ii)
During deliveries, Contractor will maintain control of the sidewalk and street at all times
using appropriate traffic control devices and flaggers.
3)
Location of construction parking.
i)
Construction worker vehicle parking is shown in Exhibit B - Construction Parking & Staging
Plan.
ii)
Construction personnel will be required to park vehicles, either onsite or at the Secondary
Vehicle Parking location as identified in Exhibit B- Construction Parking & Staging Plan.
(1) Construction Parking will be located at the corner parcel of S. Fremont Street and E. 3rd 
Avenue on owner's private property [attached to the project site].
Construction Staging, Parking, Traffic, and Pedestrian
Management Plan 200 South Fremont Street, San Mateo

--- page 23 ---
4)
Tracking & responding to complaints pertaining to construction activity, including identification of an
onsite complaint manager. The manager shall determine the cause of the complaints and shall take prompt action to
correct the problem.
i)
The Contractor will provide a means to respond to and track complaints pertaining to construction
activity. The Project Superintendent shall be designated as the on-site complaint manager.
5)
Provision for accommodation of pedestrian flow.
i)
See Exhibit C - Pedestrian Traffic Management Plan
(1) Primary Construction Entrance - Pedestrian Traffic Management Plan
(a) Primary Construction Entrance is off 2nd Avenue.
(b) During use of the Primary Construction Entrance, pedestrian traffic will be routed away from the
Primary Construction Entrance with:
(i)
"Sidewalk Closed - Use Other Side" A-frame traffic barricades placed on the Western & Eastern
sides of the sidewalk of 2nd Avenue.
1.
A-frame barricade at Southwest corner of S. Fremont Street & 2nd Ave intersection.
2.
A-frame barricade at the Northwest corner of the project site.
3.
A-frame barricade at the Southeast corner of S. Eldorado St & 2nd Ave.
4.
A-frame barricade at the Southeast corner of Delaware & 2nd Ave intersection.
(ii)
Traffic Control Personnel, at either end of the construction entrance, equipped
with an orange vest [or a reflective vest at night], hard hat & C28 "STOP/SLOW" paddle.
(c) Pedestrian traffic will be routed from the Southern sidewalk along 2nd Avenue to the Northern sidewalk
along 2nd Avenue.
(2) Secondary Entrance for Construction Parking & Staging- Exhibit B & C
(a) Parking Entrance is off of S. Fremont Street.
(b) During use of the Parking Entrance, pedestrian traffic will be routed away from the  Construction
Parking Entrance with:
(i)
"Sidewalk Closed - Use Other Side" A-frame traffic barricades placed on the
westerly sidewalk of S. Fremont Street between 2nd Avenue and 3rd Avenue.
1.
A-frame barricade at Southwestern corner of S. Fremont Street & 2nd Avenue intersection.
2.
A-frame barricade at Northwestern corner of S. Fremont Street & 3rd Avenue intersection.
(ii)
Traffic Control Personnel, on either end of the construction entrance, equipped with an
orange vest [or a reflective vest at night], hard hat & C28 "STOP/SLOW" paddle.
(c) Pedestrian traffic will be routed from the Western sidewalk along S. Fremont Street to the Eastern
sidewalk along S. Fremont Street.
Page4 
Construction Staging, Parking, Traffic, and Pedestrian
Management Plan 200 South Fremont Street, San Mateo

--- page 24 ---
EXHIBIT A 
TRUCK HAUL ROUTE 
----- ----- PageS ----------
Construction Staging, Parking, Traffic, and Pedestrian
Management Plan 200 South Fremont Street, San Mateo

--- page 25 ---
Q /,lows Auto nad1ator 
Q Mercado El Naya11ta 
 -1.-= 
P 
,Q;;-cR•S Baby Sleps 
T 
Bay Area Garden 
... 
1,.'? O,  ,. 
Atlas Towing Q 
Golden State ft 
Marble & Grar11te T 
Sturgc Prt:sbyterian 
Church 
Todd 
Q 
Paws Dog Camp 
''&. 
, El 
Second Baptist Church 
lacedonm Church 
f God CtHtst 
..:·-;.. '":. '• o:,. 
o Stat1011EJ .. 
Q 
<:,Sn Ma0 
J 
(). 
,...\ 
k
.0 
:. 
Hassett Ace Hard•.,.,are 
Shell 
.--' 
,,..;.':> 
Humboldt House Q 
· 
Gateway Park 
00 South Fremont Street El 
A Music Connecuon 
ft Downtown S.:in 
Y Mnteo Asock1t1on 
Jacf· 1 • th1• G .n 
t lJrllOfl 
1:1 
9 
'.'ault 1 L•l r.\ 
r.un .md Bar,.. 
Century 12 San Mateo 
:ncso 
vice 
WalgreensQ 
Q7-Eleven 
Chr·.·ron 
(i) 16 
l 8, 11 
b1gfatqu1ta11st 
Page 6 
P;irk S 
Delivery Route to
Site
Truck Hauling Away
from Site
Construction Staging, Parking, Traffic, and Pedestrian
Management Plan 200 South Fremont Street, San Mateo

--- page 26 ---
EXHIBIT B 
CONSTRUCTION 
PARKING & STAGING
PLAN 
----
----
Construction Staging, Parking, Traffic, and Pedestrian
Management Plan 200 South Fremont Street, San Mateo 
Page7
-----------
-----------

--- page 27 ---
Parking & Staging plan
Construction Staging, Parking, Traffic, and Pedestrian
Management Plan 200 South Fremont Street, San Mateo 
Page8
-----------
-----------
1. Construction plan for current site conditions through concrete form installation and concrete wall
pour in below grade garage level:
- No use of 222 S Fremont St sight
- Concrete pour and cure time apx 1 month
Not To Scale
~100ft

--- page 28 ---
2. Construction plan after soil is backfilled against below grade garage level:
- Below grade garage concrete complete and work commences on at grade concrete slab
- Stock pile of  soil backfilled and compacted against the garage
- Sloped shoring eliminated
- 222 S Fremont site returned to pre-existing grade
- Dewatering wells and tank removed
- Shoring Beams removed from city right of way
- Temporary orange fence moved adjacent to property line
Not To Scale
Parking & Staging plan
Construction Staging, Parking, Traffic, and Pedestrian
Management Plan 200 South Fremont Street, San Mateo 
Page9
-----------
-----------
~100ft
~50.11ft

--- page 29 ---
3. Construction plan after SUP approval:
- Construction staging, porto toilets, temporary power, and garbage cans moved to 222 S Fremont St
- Parking allowed on staging site
- Contractor's construction trailer parked on site specs shown on next page
Parking & Staging plan
Construction Staging, Parking, Traffic, and Pedestrian
Management Plan 200 South Fremont Street, San Mateo 
Not To Scale
Pagel0
-----------
-----------
~100ft
(Information 
only) Not 
approved until 
Building Permit.

--- page 30 ---
24' x 8' OFFICE TRAILER 
Dimensions 
24' Long (including hitch) 
20' Box size 
S'Wide 
7' Ceiling height 
Heating/Cooling 
Electric baseboard heat and 
thru-wall AC unit or 
combination heat/AC unit 
Exterior Finish 
Aluminum or wood siding 
I-Beam Frame
Standard drip rail gutters 
Windows/Doors 
· Horizontal slider windows
· Vision panel door with
standard lock or steel door
with dead bolt lock
* Photos ore representational; actual products vary.
Additional floor plans and specijicarions may vary from
rhose shown and are subject to in-swck ovailability 
Interior Finish 
Paneled walls 
Carpet or vinyl tile floor 
Gypsum ceiling 
Other 
Optional restroom 
+ 
In addition to your office 
solution, we can provide 
additional products and 
services that complete your 
space- creating a more 
productive, comfortable, and 
safe work environment. 
Electric 
Fluorescent ceiling lights 
Breaker panel 
...
800.782.1500 I WILLSCOT.COM 
1//////////////////////2 
Pagel1 
-----------
-----------

--- page 31 ---
EXHIBIT C 
PEDESTRIAN & TRAFFIC
MANAGEMENT PLAN 
----
----
Page12
-----------
-----------
Parking & Staging plan
Construction Staging, Parking, Traffic, and Pedestrian
Management Plan 200 South Fremont Street, San Mateo

--- page 32 ---
D
el
Not To Scale
ROAD  
CONSTRUCTION  
AHEAD
FLAGMAN
CONES
ARROW BOARD
RIGHT LANE CLOSED  
AHEAD
ROAD CONSTRUCTION  
AHEAD
LEFT LANE CLOSED  
AHEAD
PROJECT SITE
CLOSE
USE
SIDEWALK
D
IDE
OTHER S
SIDEWALK  
CLOSED
USE
OTHER SIDE
CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCES - PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT PLAN
PRIMARY TRUCK 
HAULING 
ENTRANCE/EXIT
LEFTLANE 
CLOSED  
AHEAD
RIGHT
LANE 
CLOSED  
AHEAD
PARKING AREA
SIDEWALK  
CLOSED  
USE
OTHER SIDE
SIDEWALK  
CLOSED  
USE
OTHER SIDE
SIDEWALK  
CLOSED  
USE
OTHER SIDE
South El Dorado
South Fremont St
Lawrence 
Ave
East 3rd Avenue
2nd Avenue
South Delaware St 
PAST S . EL
DORADO ST.
->
NORTH 
CROSSWALK
CLOSED
USE OTHER
SIDE  
CROSSWALK
CLOSED
USE OTHER
SIDE  
PARKING 
ENTRANCE/EXIT
st width 41 ft
st width 37 ft
st width 41 ft
6ft Fence
20'
20'
15'
22'
Pagel3
-----------
-----------

--- page 33 ---
EXHIBIT D 
ANTICIPATED MAXIUMUM
CONSTRUCTION WORKER
COUNT PER DAY
----
----
 
 
 
Page14 
Parking & Staging plan
Construction Staging, Parking, Traffic, and Pedestrian
Management Plan 200 South Fremont Street, San Mateo

--- page 34 ---
----
----
-  
 
 
 
Page15 
-
Parking & Staging plan
Construction Staging, Parking, Traffic, and Pedestrian
Management Plan 200 South Fremont Street, San Mateo

--- page 35 ---
Arborist Report and Tree Protection Plan 
222 South Fremont Street 
San Mateo, California 
Prepared for: 
Ms. Regan Catanzaro 
Wall Street Properties 
922 S. Claremont Street 
San Mateo, CA 94402 
Prepared by: 
Uriel Hernandez 
ISA Certified Arborist WE-11955A 
Revised March 22, 2022

--- page 36 ---
Arborist Report and Tree Protection Plan 
Revised March 22, 2022 
222 S. Fremont Street San Mateo, CA 
Arborist Report and Tree Protection Plan 
Wall Street Properties 
222 South Fremont Street 
San Mateo, CA 
Table of Contents 
Section 
  Page 
Introduction and Overview 
1 
Tree Assessment Methods 
1 
Previous Arborist Reports 
3 
Table 1. Status of trees from 2015 Arborist Reports 
3 
Description of Current Trees 
4 
Suitability for Preservation 
6 
Evaluation of Impacts and Recommendations for Action 
6 
Table 2. Tree Inventory Table 
7 
Landscape Unit Values 
8 
Table 3. Landscape Unit Values 
8 
Tree Protection Plan 
9 
Table 4. Specific Tree Protection Zones 
9 
Exhibit A – Tree Assessment 
12 
Exhibit B – Tree Protection Plan 
13

--- page 37 ---
Arborist Report and Tree Protection Plan 
Revised March 22, 2022 
222 S. Fremont Street San Mateo, CA 
Uriel Hernandez, Certified Arborist WE-11955A 
Page | 1 
Arborist Report and Tree Protection Plan 
222 South Fremont Street 
San Mateo, CA 
Introduction and Overview 
Ms. Regan Catanzaro of Wall Street Properties contracted me to prepare this Arborist Report 
and Tree Protection Plan in connection with the redevelopment of 200 South Fremont Street, 
San Mateo. The site is currently under construction; however, work is on hold due to concerns 
regarding proper tree protection procedures on the adjacent site of 222 South Fremont Street. 
222 South Fremont Street is serving as a staging area for the construction at the adjacent site 
and is the subject of this report. This project is subject to Sections 13.40, 23.40, and 27.71 of 
the Municipal Code, therefore Protected Trees are as follows: any trees over 6 inches in 
diameter on the subject properties (as per SMMC 27.71), Heritage Trees only on neighboring 
properties (as per SMMC 13.40) and Street Trees of any size in the public right-of-way within 30 
feet of the project (as per SMMC 13.40). 
The report provides the following information: 
1. An assessment of the health and structural condition of the trees within the construction
staging area (222 South Fremont Street) based on a visual inspection from the ground.
2. An evaluation of the impacts to trees based on plans
3. Landscape Unit Values (LU) for all trees assessed
4. Guidelines for tree preservation during the construction and maintenance phases of
development
Tree Assessment Methods 
I visited the site on February 18, 2022 and March 19, 2022 to identify the trees on and adjacent 
to 222 S. Fremont Street which are or may be impacted by construction activities. This included 
all trees with a trunk diameter of six inches or greater measured 54” above grade on the subject 
parcel as well as two (2) adjacent street trees.  
The assessment procedure consisted of the following steps: 
1) Identifying each tree’s species
2) Measuring the trunk diameter at a point 54” above grade (DBH)
3) Identifying each tree by a tag number and recording its location on a map
4) Evaluating the health of the tree based on a visual inspection from the ground. Tree
health is rated Good, Fair or Poor, using the following criteria:
Good:  Vigorous growth with foliage of normal size, shape and color. Canopy 
density 90-100%, little to no dead wood, minor or no pest infestation, little 
to no decay. Tree is expected to live its natural lifespan. 
Fair:  All or some of the new growth shoots are shorter than expected for the 
species. Canopy density 60-90%. Some small branch dieback. Noticeable

--- page 38 ---
Arborist Report and Tree Protection Plan  
 
Revised March 22, 2022 
222 S. Fremont Street San Mateo, CA 
 
 
Uriel Hernandez, Certified Arborist WE-11955A  
Page | 2 
 
pest infestation and/or decay. Tree is not in decline right now, but further 
stress such as construction impacts, increased pest pressure, drought 
etc. may cause a decline in health. 
Poor:  Little to no new growth and significant dieback. Foliage may be 
undersized, distorted, yellowed or another color abnormal for the species. 
Canopy density 20-60% or less. Significant dead wood, pest infestation or 
decay. Tree is not expected to live its natural lifespan. 
5) Evaluating the Structure of the tree based on a visual inspection from the ground. Tree 
Structure is rated Good, Fair or Poor, using the following criteria: 
Good: Minor structural flaws may be corrected through pruning. Tree has an 
upright trunk and a single trunk tapering to a single leader at the top, or a 
single leader may be easily trained. Most scaffold branches are smaller 
than the leader, attached to the trunk at angles approaching 45 degrees 
and are spaced apart on the trunk both vertically and radially. Structure 
does not contain included bark (bark inside the juncture of multiple 
trunks). No sign of previous branch failures. Foliage is evenly distributed 
on the limbs. Symmetrical or mostly symmetrical canopy. 
Fair:  Some structural flaws not correctable through pruning. Tree may have 
more than one trunk or leader, trunk may have a slight lean. Scaffold 
branches may be attached at angles less than 30 degrees and/or may be 
crowded on the trunk. Structure may have included bark, previous branch 
failures or end-heavy limbs. Some asymmetry in the canopy. 
Poor:  Significant structural flaws not correctable through pruning. Significant 
dead wood or decay. More than one trunk or leader and/or branches 
crowded together on the trunk. Significantly end-heavy limbs may be 
present. Structure may contain significant included bark, previous branch 
failures and/or asymmetry. Precipitous lean may be present. Tree is likely 
to be hazardous. 
6) Rating the Suitability for Preservation of the tree. Suitability for Preservation is based 
only on the tree itself and not related to potential construction impacts. Rated High, 
Moderate or Low, using the following criteria: 
High:  
Tree is currently an asset to the landscape and may be expected to 
survive minor to moderate construction impacts if adequately 
protected. 
Moderate:  Tree contributes something to the landscape and may be improved 
by pruning or other maintenance activities. May be expected to 
survive minor construction impacts if adequately protected. 
Protection measures are probably worth taking except where 
construction impacts are extensive. 
Low:  
Tree does not contribute to the landscape. It is in poor health and 
may be hazardous. It is not expected to survive any construction 
impacts. Some trees with poor viability may be retained if they will 
not be impacted by construction.

--- page 39 ---
Arborist Report and Tree Protection Plan  
 
Revised March 22, 2022 
222 S. Fremont Street San Mateo, CA 
 
 
Uriel Hernandez, Certified Arborist WE-11955A  
Page | 3 
 
Previous Arborist Reports 
The process of developing a property can take multiple years and iterations. The trees 
associated with this project have been the subject of previous arborist reports. In preparing this 
report, I reviewed a Tree Survey Report for 727 E 3rd Avenue dated November 20, 2013 and 
another for 210 S. Fremont Street dated March 1, 2019. Both were created by Master Arborist 
David L. Babby. Currently, 17 of the 22 trees identified by Babby in 2013 and 2019 have been 
removed. The status of each tree is listed in Table 1 and the location of each tree is labelled in 
Exhibit B, with trees that have been removed labeled in red.  
 
The 5 remaining trees of the original 22 are the subject of this report, in addition to 3 other trees 
which have since achieved Protected status.  
 
Table 1. Status of trees from 2015 Arborist Reports 
Tree # Common Name 
Scientific Name 
DBH 2015 
Status 2022 
1 English Walnut 
Juglans regia 
21 
Removed 
2 Mulberry 
Morus alba 
12,10,9 
Removed 
3 Coast live oak 
Quercus agrifolia 
26 
Removed 
4 Plum 
Prunus domestica 
6,6,4,4,4,3 Removed 
5 Scots pine 
Pinus sylvestris 
11 
Removed 
6 Fig 
Ficus carica 
*removed 
Removed 
7 Coast redwood 
Sequoia sempervirens 
21 
Removed 
10 Almond 
Prunus amygdalus 
15 
Removed 
11 Catalina cherry 
Prunus i. susp. lyonii 
6,3 
Removed 
12 Catalina cherry 
Prunus i. susp. lyonii 
7,6 
Removed 
13 Catalina cherry 
Prunus i. susp. lyonii 
7,7 
Removed 
14 Olive 
Olea europaea 
17 
Present 
15 Chinese pistache 
Pistacia chinensis 
16 
Present 
16 Keith Davey Chinese pistache Pistacia c. 'Keith Davey' 
18 
Removed 
17 Myoporum 
Myoporum laetum 
7 
Present 
18 Coast live oak 
Quercus agrifolia 
16 
Present 
19 Coast live oak 
Quercus agrifolia 
15 
Present 
20 Catalina cherry 
Prunus i. susp. lyonii 
6 
Removed 
21 Coast live oak 
Quercus agrifolia 
7 
Removed 
22 Coast live oak 
Quercus agrifolia 
6 
Removed 
*According to the 2015 Tree Inventory report, Tree #6 was removed some time between 2013 
and 2015.

--- page 40 ---
Arborist Report and Tree Protection Plan  
 
Revised March 22, 2022 
222 S. Fremont Street San Mateo, CA 
 
 
Uriel Hernandez, Certified Arborist WE-11955A  
Page | 4 
 
Description of Current Trees 
Eight (8) trees representing six (6) species were assessed (Table 2). Their approximate 
locations and assigned numbers are shown in Exhibit B. 
 
Two Coast live oaks were assessed and both 
were defined by City Code as Heritage Trees: 
 
Tree #19 was a Coast live oak with a diameter of 
21 inches (Image 1). It had Fair health and Good 
structure. Though it lacked a central leader, as is 
typical of the species, it had a seemingly stable 
structure and a dense canopy. There was minor 
dieback of the outer canopy, potentially due to 
current conditions. At the time of my first site 
visit, a small Tree Protection Zone was 
established by a chain link fence approximately 3-
6 feet from the trunk. Additionally, netting and 
straw wattle was wrapped around the trunk. Soil 
had been piled on the surrounding area within the 
dripline and critical root zone (Image 2).  
 
Tree #18 was also a Coast live oak located in the 
backyard of the adjacent 717 3rd Ave between the 
fence line and a backyard tool shed (Image 3). In the 
previous arborist report, tree #18 was incorrectly 
mapped and shown to be located where Blackwood 
acacia #23 is located. 
 
Two street trees were assessed: Olive #14 and 
Chinese pistache #15: 
 
Olive #14 had a diameter of 18 inches (Image 4, 
next page). It was in Poor health and had Poor 
structure. It had significant structural defects and the 
base of the tree had grown over the adjacent 
sidewalk. There was also mechanical damage along 
the trunk. It was located within the public right-of-way 
within a 3’ planting strip along Fremont Street. During 
my site visit, a chain link fence delineated the Tree 
Protection Zone and was located approximately 3-7’ 
from the trunk.  
 
Chinese pistache #15 had a diameter of 17 inches 
and was also located in the public right-of-way within 
Image 1 
Image 2 
Image 3

--- page 41 ---
Arborist Report and Tree Protection Plan  
 
Revised March 22, 2022 
222 S. Fremont Street San Mateo, CA 
 
 
Uriel Hernandez, Certified Arborist WE-11955A  
Page | 5 
 
a sidewalk cutout (Image 
5). It was in fair health 
and fair structural 
condition, and had 
evidence of being 
previously topped. It was 
Protected both as a street 
tree and a Heritage Tree.  
 
Myoporum #17 was also 
included in previous 
reports. It had a diameter 
of 7 inches and was in the 
backyard of 717 3rd Ave. 
While still present at the 
site, it was in overall poor 
condition.  
 
Three new trees have been included in this report that 
were not in the previous reports: 
 
Tree #23 was a Blackwood acacia located in the backyard 
of 717 3rd Ave. It was located near the fence line adjacent 
to a shed where a previous report incorrectly mapped 
Coast live oak #18. It had a trunk diameter of 12 inched 
and was in overall fair condition. 
 
A row of over a dozen glossy privets were located on 717 
3rd Ave along the eastern fence line near the driveway 
(Image 7). Two trees (#24 and 25) had six (6) inch trunk 
diameters and were included in this report. 
 
Image 4 
Image 5 
Image 6 
Image 7

--- page 42 ---
Arborist Report and Tree Protection Plan  
 
Revised March 22, 2022 
222 S. Fremont Street San Mateo, CA 
 
 
Uriel Hernandez, Certified Arborist WE-11955A  
Page | 6 
 
Suitability for Preservation 
Trees that are to be preserved on development sites must be assessed to ensure they can 
survive development impacts. Suitability for preservation is determined by the following factors: 
● Tree Health 
Healthy trees can better tolerate the impacts of construction including root injury, 
demolition, changes in soil composition, and soil compaction than less healthy trees. 
● Structural Integrity 
Trees with decay and defects that cannot be corrected are more likely to fail and should 
not be preserved in locations where damage to people or property can occur. 
● Species response 
Individual species vary in their tolerance to construction impacts and changes in the 
environment. 
● Tree age and longevity 
Older trees can have a limited capacity to adjust to an altered environment. 
 
Each tree was rated for suitability for preservation based upon the criteria outlined in Tree 
Assessment Methods and given a rating of High, Moderate or Low. Table 2 (following page) 
provides a summary of suitability, structure, and health ratings. 
 
I consider trees with high suitability for preservation to be the best candidates for preservation. I 
do not recommend preserving trees with a low suitability for preservation in areas where people 
or property will be present. 
 
Evaluation of Impacts and Recommendations for Action 
Appropriate tree preservation balances the quality and health of trees with the intensity and 
location of construction activities. The Tree Assessment was the reference point for tree quality 
and health. Impacts from redevelopment were assessed using the “Site Plan” prepared by 
Johnson Lyman Architects dated November 20, 2018. Wall Street Properties also provided a 
“Staging Plan with trees” to identify site uses for the staging area at 222 South Fremont Street.  
 
The Site Plan identifies the construction of a new, multi-story residential complex on the 
adjacent property, 200 South Fremont Street. This project is currently underway and impacts to 
trees could be associated with work that has already occurred, including demolition and 
excavation, as well as planned site use as a staging area. 
 
Foundation excavation has occurred approximately 23’ northeast of Coast Live Oak #19, or at a 
safe distance 13 times the trunk diameter. The distance between Olive #14 and the excavation 
is safely greater than 10 times the trunk diameter (15’). No additional construction activities will 
be taking place closer to either tree, other than staging material which will occur outside of my 
recommended Tree Protection Zones.

--- page 43 ---
Arborist Report and Tree Protection Plan  
 
Revised March 22, 2022 
222 S. Fremont Street San Mateo, CA 
 
 
Uriel Hernandez, Certified Arborist WE-11955A  
Page | 7 
 
Planned site uses for 222 South Fremont Street throughout the remainder of the construction 
process include the installation of a pump, 2 portable toilets, a construction office, temporary 
power, and garbage cans. The site will also serve as a parking area. 
 
During my site visit, I observed large (greater than 12’ tall) piles of soil located on top of the 
critical root zone of Coast live oak #19. I also observed straw wattle wrapped around tree #19’s 
trunk. Both elements had been put in place several months ago by a previous contractor. The 
pile of soil is currently compacting the soil around the tree’s roots (as well as tree #18’s roots) 
and should be removed. 
 
 
All other trees are separated from construction activities by the fence line around the property. 
Trees #15, 17, and 23 are at a distance from construction activity well beyond 10 times their 
trunk diameters, and should not be impacted by construction activities. Trees #24 and 25 are 
roughly 3 feet from the fence line, but are smaller and more vigorous trees which should face 
minimal impacts from construction. Coast live oak #18 is located in the backyard of the adjacent 
717 3rd Ave between the fence line and a backyard tool shed. It should not be directly impacted 
by construction activity, including staging, if proper Tree Protection Zone protocols are followed. 
 
If the tree preservation recommendations in the following section are adhered to, all trees are 
likely to survive redevelopment. However, due to the poor condition of Olive #14, I would 
recommend it be removed and replaced (see Exhibit B.) A permit is required to remove or 
perform any pruning of a street tree.  
 
Table 2. Tree Inventory Table 
 
Tree 
No 
Common Name 
DBH 
Heritage 
Tree? 
Overall 
Condition 
Suitability for 
Preservation 
Recommended 
Action 
14 
Olive 
18 
Yes 
Poor 
Low 
Remove & replace 
15 
Chinese pistache 
17 
Yes 
Fair 
Moderate 
Preserve 
17 
Myoporum 
7 
No 
Poor 
Low 
Preserve 
18 
Coast live oak 
20 
Yes 
Fair 
Moderate 
Preserve 
19 
Coast live oak 
21 
Yes 
Good 
High 
Preserve 
23 
Blackwood acacia 
12 
No 
Fair 
Moderate 
Preserve 
24 
Glossy privet 
6 
No 
Good 
Moderate 
Preserve 
25 
Glossy privet 
6 
No 
Fair 
Moderate 
Preserve

--- page 44 ---
Arborist Report and Tree Protection Plan  
 
Revised March 22, 2022 
222 S. Fremont Street San Mateo, CA 
 
 
Uriel Hernandez, Certified Arborist WE-11955A  
Page | 8 
 
Landscape Unit Values 
Landscape Unit Values (LU) provide a framework to determine the amount and size of trees to 
replace any trees being removed, per section 27.71.150 of the municipal code. Existing trees to 
be removed shall be replaced with new trees to equal the total removed LU value. The LU for 
each tree assessed is listed below in Table 3. 
 
The following rates shall be given to replacement trees to obtain the replacement LU value: 
LU Value 
Replacement Tree Size 
0 
None 
1 
15-gallon 
2 
24-inch box 
3 
36-inch box 
4 
48-inch box 
 
LU is determined by the following equation: 
 
species value x condition value x location value 
 DBH x building area setback
 
___________________________________________ x x Heritage value 
= LU
0.35 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. Landscape Unit Values 
 
Tree 
No. 
Species 
Species 
Value 
Condition 
Value 
Location 
Value 
DBH 
Building 
Area 
Setback 
Heritage 
Tree 
Value 
LU 
Value 
14 
Olive 
0.7 
0.1 
0.7 
18 
1 
1.25 
3.15 
15 
Chinese 
pistache 
0.7 
0.5 
0.7 
17 
0.7 
1.25 
10.41 
17 
Myoporum 
0.3 
0.3 
0.7 
7 
1 
1 
1.26 
18 
Coast live 
oak 
0.9 
0.5 
0.7 
20 
0.7 
1.25 
15.75 
19 
Coast live 
oak 
0.9 
0.7 
0.7 
21 
0.7 
1.25 
23.15 
23 
Blackwood 
acacia 
0.3 
0.5 
0.7 
12 
0.7 
1 
2.52 
24 
Glossy 
privet 
0.3 
0.7 
0.7 
6 
0.7 
1 
1.76 
25 
Glossy 
privet 
0.3 
0.5 
0.7 
6 
0.7 
1 
1.26 
 
Alternates to On-Site Replacement: If the required LU value for replacement of existing trees to 
be removed is not made up with replacement trees on-site, the City shall require that trees be 
planted in another location on-site or off-site or a contribution of funds be made to the City to be 
used for plantings on public land or a combination of the above options. If a contribution of funds 
is required, it shall be the fee as established by resolution of the City Council in the annual 
Comprehensive Fee Schedule.

--- page 45 ---
Arborist Report and Tree Protection Plan  
 
Revised March 22, 2022 
222 S. Fremont Street San Mateo, CA 
 
 
Uriel Hernandez, Certified Arborist WE-11955A  
Page | 9 
 
 
Tree Protection Plan 
In the City of San Mateo, a tree protection plan is required whenever any Construction Activity is 
to be performed within a radius equal to ten times the diameter of the tree trunk measured at 
54" above grade for any Protected Tree as defined by S.M.M.C. 13.40.030.  
 
The tree protection plan is intended to preserve trees by preventing soil compaction, root loss or 
damage, bark injury or excessive pruning. The goal of tree preservation is not merely the 
survival of the trees during development, but the maintenance of tree health and beauty for 
many years.  
 
During my site visit I was able to speak with the new project contractor. They replaced the 
former contractor who piled soil in the critical root zone of tree #19. I asked them to temporarily 
remove the netting and straw wattle from the trunk of tree #19 since work was currently on 
pause and the wattle had been present for months. I also verbally communicated to them my 
tree protection recommendations and the need to establish a Tree Protection Zone out to each 
tree’s drip line. Impacts can be minimized by coordinating construction activities inside the Tree 
Protection Zone. 
 
The recommendations that follow will help reduce impacts to trees from development and 
maintain and improve their health and vitality throughout the remainder of the construction 
phases. 
 
The pile of soil in the critical root zone of tree #19 is of greatest concern and should be removed 
as soon as possible. Appropriate Tree Protection Zones must be established for all trees near 
construction activities (Table 4).  
 
Table 4. Specific Tree Protection Zones 
 
Tree No. 
Species 
DBH 
10 x DBH Tree Protection Zone 
14  
Olive 
18” 
15’ 
Dripline in all directions 
15 
Chinese pistache 
17” 
14’ 2” 
Fence line 
17 
Myoporum 
7” 
5’ 10” 
Fence line 
18 
Coast live oak 
20” 
16’ 9” 
Dripline on project-side of fence 
19 
Coast live oak 
21” 
17’ 6” 
Dripline in all directions 
23 
Blackwood acacia 
12” 
10’ 
Fence line 
24 
Glossy privet 
6” 
5’ 
Fence line 
25 
Glossy privet 
6” 
5’ 
Fence line

--- page 46 ---
Arborist Report and Tree Protection Plan  
 
Revised March 22, 2022 
222 S. Fremont Street San Mateo, CA 
 
 
Uriel Hernandez, Certified Arborist WE-11955A  
Page | 10 
 
 
 
Tree Preservation Instructions 
It is the responsibility of the property owner/applicant, General Contractor, and other contractors 
to know and follow the guidelines for the preservation of trees.  
 
1. Remove the pile of soil that is located on the critical root zone of Coast live oak #19.  
a. This should be done so that no construction vehicles encroach upon the Tree 
Protection Zone of either tree. The vacated ground should remain uncompacted 
and covered with root buffers.  
b. Root buffers shall consist of secured geotextile material covering the area to be 
protected. Cover the geotextile material with 4 to 6 inches of clean wood chips. 
Securely install 3/4- inch plywood over the wood chips. 
c. Type 3 trunk wrap, either vertical timbers or straw wattle, shall be wrapped 
around the tree trunk during soil removal as a protection measure. Once the pile 
of soil has been removed and a Tree Protection Zone established, the Type 3 
trunk wrap must also be removed. 
2. A Tree Protection Zone must be established for each tree that will be preserved.  
a. The Tree Protection Zone will be out to the drip line of trees #14, 18, and #19 
b. The TPZ of Coast live oaks #18 and 19 shall contain root buffers. Root buffers 
shall consist of secured geotextile material covering the area to be protected. 
Cover the geotextile material with 4 to 6 inches of clean wood chips. Securely 
install 3/4- inch plywood over the wood chips. 
c. The Tree Protection Zone shall extend to the construction fence line for all other 
trees 
d. Fence trees to completely enclose the Tree Protection Zone.  
e. Fencing shall consist of six (6’) foot high chain link fence, mounted on two-inch 
diameter galvanized iron posts, driven into the ground to a depth of at least two 
feet at no more than 10-foot spacing.  
f. The fence shall enclose the entire TPZ of the tree(s) to be protected throughout 
the life of the construction project. Fencing may not be relocated or removed any 
sooner without permission of the Consulting Arborist. 
g. No materials, equipment, spoil, waste, or wash-out water may be deposited, 
stored, or parked within the Tree Protection Zone 
h. A sign shall be affixed to the Tree Protection Zone identifying it as a TPZ and 
prohibiting entry or use of the Tree Protection Zone for storage or parking. 
3. Any work within the TPZ of a Protected tree it will be supervised by a Project Arborist, 
and changes to this Protection Plan will require approval from the City Arborist. 
4. Ensure that all staging site activities occur outside of the Tree Protection Zone. This 
includes parking vehicles or installing any temporary site feature such as a pump, 
garbage can, or portable toilet. 
5. Have the locations of all trees to be preserved and their drip lines indicated on all plans.  
6. Any plan updates affecting trees should be reviewed by the Consulting Arborist 
regarding tree impacts.

--- page 47 ---
Arborist Report and Tree Protection Plan  
 
Revised March 22, 2022 
222 S. Fremont Street San Mateo, CA 
 
 
Uriel Hernandez, Certified Arborist WE-11955A  
Page | 11 
 
7. Tree Preservation Notes, prepared by the Consulting Arborist, should be included in all 
plans. 
8. Underground services including utilities, sub-drains, water, or sewer shall be routed 
around the Tree Protection Zone. When encroachment cannot be avoided, special 
construction techniques such as hand digging or tunneling under roots shall be 
employed where necessary to minimize root injury. 
9. Any herbicides placed under paving materials must be safe for use around trees and 
labeled for that use. 
10. If any additional root pruning is necessary, roots shall be cut by manually digging a 
trench and cutting exposed roots with a sharp saw or other approved root pruning 
equipment. 
11. Any tree pruning required must be performed only by a qualified and certified arborist 
and not by construction personnel. 
12. Development projects must assure the retention of the services of a certified Arborist (to 
serve as the Project Arborist) to monitor the site and to be present whenever activities 
occur which will pose a potential threat to the health of the Protected Trees or whenever 
any work needs to be done within the Dripline of such tree. 
 
 
Maintenance of impacted trees 
Trees preserved may experience a physical environment from that of pre-development. As a 
result, tree health and structural stability should be monitored. Occasional pruning, fertilization, 
mulch, pest management, and irrigation may be required. The monitoring of tree health and 
structural stability following construction should be made a priority. As trees age, the likelihood 
of branches or entire trees failing may increase. Therefore, annual inspection for hazards 
potential is recommended. 
 
 
Uriel Hernandez 
ISA-Certified Arborist WE-11955A

--- page 48 ---
Arborist Report and Tree Protection Plan  
 
Revised March 22, 2022 
222 S. Fremont Street San Mateo, CA 
 
Uriel Hernandez, Certified Arborist WE-11955A  
Page | 12  
 
Exhibit A – Tree Assessment  
Tree 
# 
Common 
Name 
Scientific 
Name 
DBH 
(in.) 
Tree 
Health 
Tree 
Structure 
Overall 
Tree 
Condition 
Suitability for 
Preservation 
Comments 
14 
Olive 
Olea 
europaea 
18 
Poor 
Poor 
Poor 
Low 
Very poor structure. Roots pouring over 3’ sidewalk 
cutout. One sided to NW. Minor mechanical 
damage to lower trunk. Decay and significant 
dieback. 
15 
Chinese 
pistache 
Pistacia 
chinensis 
17 
Fair 
Fair 
Fair 
Moderate 
In sidewalk cutout, bucking sidewalk. Street tree. 
Previously topped. Severe epicormic sprouting and 
removal of sprouts. Small canopy. 
17 
Myoporum 
Myoporum 
laetum 
7 
Poor 
Fair 
Poor 
Poor 
Off-site, not tagged. Low vitality and poor canopy. In 
decline. Multiple attachments. 
18 
Coast live 
oak 
Quercus 
agrifolia 
20 
Fair 
Fair 
Fair 
Moderate 
Off-site, no tag visible. Trunk bows over shed. 
Between fence and shed on property line. Buckling 
fence. Covered in ivy. Off site no tag.rounded form. 
15' overhang. Spreading form, leaning over shed 
19 
Coast live 
oak 
Quercus 
agrifolia 
21 
Fair 
Good 
Good 
High 
Spreading structure with multiple attachments at 7’. 
Minor twig dieback in lower canopy. Minimal new 
growth. Dense canopy. Soil piled under Eastern half 
of canopy. Excavation approximately 23’ NW. Straw 
wattle wrapped around trunk. 
23 
Blackwood 
acacia 
Acacia 
melanoxylon 
12 
Fair 
Fair 
Fair 
Moderate 
Off-site not tagged. 2' from fence. Candelabra form. 
Upright codominant stems. Previously topped. 
Dense lower canopy thin upper canopy. Good 
branch attachment. Overhang 12' 
24 
Glossy 
privet 
Ligustrum 
lucidum 
6 
Good 
Fair 
Good 
Moderate 
Off-site, no tag, on fence line, growing into fence, 
multi attachments at 12' rounded form, 8' overhang. 
25 
Glossy 
privet 
Ligustrum 
lucidum 
6 
Fair 
Fair 
Fair 
Moderate 
Off-site, no tag. Located between fence and 
driveway. Multiple attachments at 7' with narrow 
attachments. Adjacent to fence. Rounded form

--- page 49 ---
#1
 #2
 #3
 #4
 #5
#9
#8
#7
#12
#21
#22
#12
#13
#11
#10
#19
#18
#14
#20
#15
#16
#17
#23
#24
#25
Trees numbered in RED have been removed since 2019
Trees numbered in BLACK are still present as of March 19, 2022
For trees #15, 17, 23, 24, and 25 the TPZ shall be the fence line
For trees #14, 18, and 19 the TPZ shall be erected at the dripline
o
o
o
o o
o
o
o
Exhibit B: Tree Protection Plan

--- page 50 ---
ATTACHMENT 5 – PROJECT DATA SHEET
NAME: S. Fremont St.
Vacant Lot, Special Use Permit (SUP)
PA: 2021-073
ADDRESS: No Site Address
LOT SIZE: 20,134 square-feet
(0.46 acre)
ZONING: R4-D
(High Density Multi-Family)
APN: 033-163-170
PROPOSED
MAXIMUM ALLOWED
FLOOR AREA
Temporary Office Trailer
192 square-feet
60,402 square-feet
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR)
N/A
3.00
LOT COVERAGE
N/A
45%
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY
N/A
50 DU/AC
RESIDENTIAL UNITS
N/A
N/A
BLDG. HEIGHT (Plate Line)
Temporary Office Trailer
11 feet
55 feet
PROPOSED
MINIMUM REQUIRED
SETBACKS
Front: E. 3rd Avenue
Left Side: West property line
Right Side: S. Fremont Street
Rear:  North property line
No change
from existing
20 feet
15 feet
Varies: 15 to 20 feet
37.6 and 40 feet
PARKING
35 stalls
(See Construction Worker Parking Management Plan)
LOADING
N/A
N/A
BICYCLE
N/A
N/A
OPEN SPACE
N/A
N/A
LANDSCAPING
N/A
N/A
NOTES:
The information provided above is limited to the proposed construction staging use located on the 
existing vacant parcel. The construction office trailer is proposed on a temporary basis and will be 
removed upon completion of the 200 S. Fremont St. construction project (PA-2015-048).

--- page 51 ---
NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING SUMMARY 
Date: October 25, 2021 
Time 7:00pm 
Location Zoom Meeting 
ATTENDEES 
Public Attendees: 
1.
Ben
2.
Noreen Chiu
3.
Denise
4.
Diana Petit
5.
Nina & Daniel Schonberg
6.
Tim
Project Sponsors: 
Regan Catanzaro – Wall Street Properties – Developer 
Victor Catanzaro – Developer/Owner 
PURPOSE 
To present the development project to neighbors and create a forum for feedback, 
comments, and questions. 
PRESENTATION (slide deck enclosed): 
•
Introduction
•
Project Site & Staging Locations
•
Construction Staging and Parking Plan
•
Construction Entrances – Pedestrian Traffic MGMT Plan
•
Summary - Q&A
SUMMARY Q&A 
- 
Ben – Concerns about noise & vibration 
o
Answer: Beam vibration is fully completed at this time. Noise will be kept within
city mandated decibel limits. 
- 
Noreen Chiu – What hours will construction take place 
o
Answer: We will abide by city mandated construction hours.
- 
Tim – Traffic – What will be done about construction trucks blocking 2nd Avenue 
o
Answer: Blocking of traffic lanes on 2nd Ave and Fremont St will be very
temporary and likely only occur when large equipment is entering or exiting the 
site or when there are major deliveries that cannot take place on site. In that 
event there will be multiple personnel directing traffic.

--- page 52 ---
From:
Regan Catanzaro
To:
Cc:
Leo Chow; Phillip Brennan; Linda Ly
Subject:
Re: 210 Fremont St Construction Tremors
Date:
Thursday, July 22, 2021 10:22:54 AM
Hello Michael,
I apologize for any disruption the construction is bringing you. Thank you for bringing this to
my attention. I will inform our contractor of your concerns, especially with regards to
providing notice to neighbors for such work.
I spoke to the onsite superintendent yesterday and he informed me that he has delayed start of
work from 7am to 8am in an effort to be accomodating to neighbors. All drilling should stop
by 4pm daily. His estimated timeline for the remainder of the drilling is 2 days. Please feel
free to call me to discuss the issue further. I will be on site today and happy to meet with you
personally.
Sincerely,
Regan Catanzaro
650-218-1828
On Thu, Jul 22, 2021 at 9:52 AM Michael Yuan 
wrote:
Hi all,
Hope you're doing well. I'm a resident of 725 2nd Ave and I'm very concerned with the
recent constructions.
The tremors from the construction drilling are equivalent, if not more, than the earthquakes
we've experienced in the past at this property. I find it impossible to focus and do work
when the entire house is shaking (not to mention the noise). It's frustrating and I've been
falling behind at work. In addition, my partner gets motion sickness easily and the past two
days have been nauseating and headache-inducing for her.
Lastly, I'm also concerned with the long-term damage to my property. It's hard to imagine
the property will not sustain any damage going through hours of earthquake-like tremors.
Is there anything we can do to alleviate this? I'd also like assurance that any potential
property damage will be covered by someone's insurance.
Best,
Michael

--- page 53 ---
From:
Regan Catanzaro
To:
Cc:
Leo Chow; Phillip Brennan; Linda Ly
Subject:
Re: 210 S Fremont Project Cause Potential Damage Concern to Neighborhood Properties
Date:
Thursday, July 22, 2021 10:24:43 AM
Hello Mohan
I apologize for any disruption the construction is bringing you. Thank you for bringing this to
my attention. Unfortunately, this phase of construction is necessary to ensure that both street
and adjacent properties are properly shored for the remainder of construction. I spoke to the
onsite superintendent yesterday and he informed me that he has delayed start of work from
7am to 8am in an effort to be accomodating to neighbors. All drilling should stop by 4pm
daily. His estimated timeline for the remainder of the drilling is 2 days. Please feel free to call
me to discuss the issue further. I will be on site today and happy to meet with you personally.
Sincerely,
Regan Catanzaro
650-218-1828
On Wed, Jul 21, 2021 at 9:36 PM Mohan Sha 
 wrote:
Hi,
There has been drilling in the construction site that causes earthquake-like vibrations in the
past two days. This not only disturbs tenants' lives in the neighborhood, but also causes
serious concern on the potential damage this may cause to our houses.
Would it be possible to change another method for construction to make sure our properties
are not impacted? Are there any other steps the city may enforce to make sure the neighbors
and our properties are not impacted?
Thanks,
Mohan
 

--- page 54 ---
From:
To:
Regan Catanzaro
Cc:
; Leo Chow; Linda Ly
Subject:
Re: Fremont Terrace
Date:
Wednesday, July 21, 2021 12:53:13 PM
Thank you for the quick response, Regan. Please keep me posted. - Sook
On Wed, Jul 21, 2021 at 12:48 PM Regan Catanzaro <regan@wspre.com> wrote:
Hello Sook,
I just spoke to the contractor's superintendent who informed me that they anticipate drilling
between the hours of 8am and 4pm for the next 3-4 days.
The site is fully insured as are all parties performing work on the site. I will reach out to our
insurance agent and come back to you with more information.
Sincerely,
Regan Catanzaro
650-218-1828
On Wed, Jul 21, 2021 at 12:43 PM Sook Kyung Shin 
 wrote:
Sent too soon. 
Please let us know how long this would go on and if there is any insurance to cover
potential damages. I’d look forward to hearing from you. 
Thanks,
Sook
> On Jul 21, 2021, at 12:39 PM, Sook Kyung Shin 
 wrote:
> 
> ﻿Hi Regan,
> 
> My name is Sook, a homeowner near the construction site for Fremont Terrace. It’s been
a few days since we started feeling shakes from drilling. The video attached here shows
one of the mild trembling from the on-going work, which could get much worse at times. 
> 
> My husband and I understand that there could be noise and dust coming from the
construction site. But we’re definitely worried that shakes from drilling might lead to
structural damage to our property.
> 
> <Video.mov>
> 
> 
> 
 

--- page 55 ---
From:
To:
Cc:
Taye Nguyen; 
Regan Catanzaro; Leo Chow; Jimmy H. Vo; Phillip Brennan; Linda Ly
Subject:
Re: Pile driving 210 S. Fremont cause earthquake like tremo—-help
Date:
Thursday, July 22, 2021 9:24:22 AM
Do you have soil engineer report to show it is safe to pile drive and won’t affect surrounding properties? If so, I would like to see your report.
Do you have the permit to pile drive?
Again, what is your insurance contact and policy no.?
Thanks
Tim
On Jul 22, 2021, at 8:56 AM, Juan Medrano 
 wrote:
I assure you that we are deeply regretful for the inconvenience. We are trying our best to get this process done quickly. We
will continue for the next 4 days, but will try to finish as soon as possible. Any concerns please feel free to reach out to my
project engineer Angel 
 and he can answer any questions you may have. Again we are deeply sorry for the
inconvenience and please trust that we will try to get this required practice done with as soon as possible. Thank you for your
understanding.
Get Outlook for iOS
From: Timothy Kwok 
Sent: Thursday, July 22, 2021 8:43:40 AM
To: Juan Medrano
Cc: Taye Nguyen <tnguyen@cityofsanmateo.org>;
Regan Catanzaro <regan@wspre.com>; Leo Chow <lchow@cityofsanmateo.org>; Jimmy H. Vo <jvo@cityofsanmateo.org>;
Phillip Brennan <pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Re: Pile driving 210 S. Fremont cause earthquake like tremo—-help
This is at the expense of our property damages and personal safety!!!!!
Sent from my iPhone
On Jul 22, 2021, at 8:40 AM, Juan Medrano 
 wrote:
﻿
We are sorry for any inconvenience that this shaking may be causing, the area shoring is a required practice in order
to prevent major damage. We are doing are best to complete this process as quickly as possible.
Thank you ,
Juan Medrano
Artcad builders
Get Outlook for iOS
From: Timothy Kwok 
Sent: Thursday, July 22, 2021 8:29:57 AM
To: Taye Nguyen <tnguyen@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: 
Regan Catanzaro <regan@wspre.com>; Juan Medrano
 Leo Chow <lchow@cityofsanmateo.org>; Jimmy H. Vo
<jvo@cityofsanmateo.org>; Phillip Brennan <pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Re: Pile driving 210 S. Fremont cause earthquake like tremo—-help
Help!!!!
Shaking and tremor has just started again. It is worse than yesterday.
It last more than 10 seconds
I don’t feel safe staying at home.
Please stop drilling immediately!!!
If there is property damages or worse, personal injury, both the developer and the city is aware of the cause. And
drilling goes on with this knowledge.
Best
Tim
Sent from my iPhone
On Jul 21, 2021, at 4:37 PM, Taye Nguyen <tnguyen@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:
﻿
 

--- page 56 ---
Hello,
More information about this project can be found on the City of San Mateo Website.
210 South Fremont Street | San Mateo, CA - Official Website (cityofsanmateo.org)
The project liaison for this project is Juan Metrans.
We did visit the job site today for a consultation with the contractor regarding the shaking and vibrations. A sign with the project liaison and work hours is due to arrive and be posted tomorrow.
Would you please reach out to the project liaison with questions or concerns? The City is working with the contractor to ensure that the Conditions of Approval are being met.
Juan
Please respond with any migration measures to help reduce the shaking and vibration. Please call John and Linda back regarding their concerns.
Best Regards,
<image002.png>
Taye Nguyen
Building Inspection Supervisor | Community Development Department
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7181 | tnguyen@cityofsanmateo.org
<image004.png>
<image006.png>
<image008.png>
<image010.png>
<image012.png>
From: Phillip Brennan <pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Sent: Wednesday, July 21, 2021 3:11 PM
To: Taye Nguyen <tnguyen@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: FW: Pile driving 210 S. Fremont cause earthquake like tremor
See below.
From: Timothy Kwok 
 
Sent: Wednesday, July 21, 2021 3:07 PM
To: Phillip Brennan <pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org>; Regan Catanzaro <regan@wspre.com>
Subject: Re: Pile driving 210 S. Fremont cause earthquake like tremor
Hi Phillip,
Thanks for your follow up. Could someone from the city come out to the site to inspect before they can restart construction. Could you have them change to non disruptive drilling?
Please come and feel the tremors.
Very nerve wrecking inside the house.
I don’t know what kind of property damages may incur if disruptive drilling continues.
Tim
Sent from my iPhone
On Jul 21, 2021, at 12:36 PM, Phillip Brennan <pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:
﻿
Hello Tim,
Thank you for your email. Please be informed that I've placed an inquiry with the building inspector assigned to this project. I will follow-up with any new information once I've been
updated.
Best-
Phillip B.
From: 
Sent: Wednesday, July 21, 2021 11:38 AM
To: Regan Catanzaro <regan@wspre.com>
Cc: Leo Chow <lchow@cityofsanmateo.org>; Phillip Brennan <pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Re: Pile driving 210 S. Fremont cause earthquake like tremor
It is still pile driving as I type. Very distressing. You might want to visit to feel.
On Jul 21, 2021, at 11:32 AM, Regan Catanzaro <regan@wspre.com> wrote:
Tim,
Thank you for reaching out and letting us know the impact construction is having on your property. I'll reach out immediately to the contractor. Please feel free to call
me to discuss the issue.
Sincerely,
Regan Catanzaro
On Wed, Jul 21, 2021 at 11:27 AM 
wrote:
Leo, Philip and Regan
I have a conversation Linda this morning. We live across the street from 210 S. Fremont development. The pile driving this morning and the last few days have been
sending earthquake like tremors to our neighborhood. The shaking and tremor is more than twice I felt in the worst recent earthquakes. It is a very distressing
experience. Remind me of the recent disaster in Florida. 
Could you stop the pile driving ASAP?
I am also concerned with possible damages to our complex. Could you provide the insurance declaration page of the developer insurance policy?
Best,
Tim
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may
contain information that is confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this
message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and
delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended
only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is
confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that
any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this
message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete
this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.

--- page 57 ---
From:
To:
Regan Catanzaro
Cc:
Phillip Brennan; Karen Magallanes; Leo Chow; Linda Ly; Matthew Trieu; 
Subject:
Re: 210 S Fremont St. progress updates
Date:
Tuesday, August 31, 2021 3:18:36 PM
Hi Regan,
I appreciate the prompt response! I will let others know.
Thank you,
Cassandra
On Tue, Aug 31, 2021 at 1:39 PM Regan Catanzaro <regan@wspre.com> wrote:
Hello Cassandra,
We appreciate you taking the time to notify us of the traffic on Fremont today. I spoke with
the team on site and I was assured that today's traffic was a result of a higher than usual haul
truck count which caused the slow down. More trucks were brought in today to expedite off
haul to ensure less traffic moving forward. While 20 trucks came through today there are
only 12 scheduled for tomorrow, the same number as previous off haul days. I have been
assured that tomorrow will be the last hauling we have scheduled as the last major
excavations will be done today.
Unfortunately, because of the narrow turns, one-way streets, and sharp turns, trucks will not
be able to take an alternate route. We apologize for the inconvenience this has created. Our
team will work swiftly to keep circulation on Fremont moving. I've cced our onsite
Superintendent Juan Medrano to this email. Please feel free to reach out to him as well with
concerns.
Sincerely,
Regan Catanzaro
Fremont Terrace Associates
650-218-1828
On Tue, Aug 31, 2021 at 12:34 PM Regan Catanzaro <regan@wspre.com> wrote:
Hello Cassandra,
Thank you for reaching out. I'll contact our on site superintendent immediately and reach
out to you later today with an update.
Sincerely,
Regan Catanzaro
Fremont Terrace Associates
650-218-1828
On Tue, Aug 31, 2021 at 12:31 PM Cassandra Garcia 
wrote:
Good Afternoon Regan,
 

--- page 58 ---
The trucks lining up on Fremont today have made our already busy street a nightmare. Is
it possible for the trucks to go an alternative route either down S. Eldorado or S.
Delaware? S. Fremont street is a main road into the surrounding neighborhood from 3rd
ave, so the truck line is an inconvenience to more than just residents directly across the
street.
Also, the trucks began lining up around 6:15am this morning, which creates a lot of
noise before 7am - will this be happening often?
Thank you,
Cassandra
On Thu, Jul 22, 2021 at 6:28 PM Regan Catanzaro <regan@wspre.com> wrote:
Hello Ms. Garcia,
I read through your questions in the email chain below and hope to answer them here.
Please do not hesitate to reach out to me with any other questions or concerns.
Regarding updates, I have added your email to the list of neighbors that have
requested updates on the project. I am putting together a newsletter system that we
hope to send out regularly to keep neighbors informed.
You are correct that the lot at 3rd and Fremont is a separate property and is going
through the city planning process now. In the interim it is being leased to the
contractor who is building the project at 2nd and Fremont. This is done in an effort to
keep all parking, staging, and circulation out of the public right of way.
Lastly, with respect to hours. I know that the contractor and their sub contractors
prefer to keep all work to week days for many reasons, with that said work hours are
regulated by the San Mateo Municipal Code and are only permitted between the hours
of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00
p.m. on Saturday, and between 12:00 noon and 4:00 p.m. on Sundays and holidays.
These hours do not apply to construction work that takes place inside a completely
enclosed building and does not exceed the exterior ambient noise level as measured 10
feet from the exterior property lines.
I hope this information is helpful to you. I understand that this week has been
disruptive due to the drilling on site. The drilling is projected to be done in the next
couple of days and the on site superintendent Juan Metrano informed me that they will
only drill between the hours of 8am and 4pm in an effort to be less disruptive to
neighbors.
Please feel free to call or email me with any comments or questions that may come up.
I'm also on site regularly and happy to meet with you in person.
Sincerely,
Regan Catanzaro
650-574-1000
 

--- page 59 ---
On Thu, Jul 22, 2021 at 3:49 PM Phillip Brennan <pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org>
wrote:
Hello Ms. Garcia:
Please contact Regan Catanzaro (contact info below). Regan is part of the project’s
ownership team and can respond to your specific concerns.
Regan Catanzaro
regan@wspre.com
650-218-1828
Best-
Phillip B.
From: Cassandra Garcia 
 
Sent: Thursday, July 22, 2021 3:42 PM
To: Karen Magallanes <kmagallanes@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: Phillip Brennan <pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Matthew Trieu
<mtrieu@cityofsanmateo.org>; Leo Chow <lchow@cityofsanmateo.org>; Linda Ly
<lly@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Re: 210 S Fremont St. progress updates
Hi Karen,
Thank you for the details.
Who should residents contact from the city if they would like to share concerns or
complaints about the project under construction?
Does the project at 210 Fremont St. have approval to work weekends? Is it possible
to get notifications in advance if they will be working?
Thank you,
Cassandra
On Fri, Jun 25, 2021 at 1:49 PM Karen Magallanes
<kmagallanes@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:
Hi Ms. Garcia,
I was forwarded your message from Phillip Brennan regarding work at the corner
of 3rd and Fremont St.
You are correct, the plot of land at the corner of 3rd and Fremont is still in the
Planning phases, and is different from the 210 S Fremont Project.
 

--- page 60 ---
It appears the work at the corner of 3rd and Fremont is related to the attached
permit for monitoring well destruction.
Please let me know if you have further questions.
Thank you,
Karen Magallanes
-----Original Message-----
From: Phillip Brennan <pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org>
Sent: Friday, June 25, 2021 8:25 AM
To: Karen Magallanes <kmagallanes@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: FW: 210 S Fremont St. progress updates
See below.
-----Original Message-----
From: Cassandra Garcia 
Sent: Wednesday, June 23, 2021 11:59 AM
To: Phillip Brennan <pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: 210 S Fremont St. progress updates
Hi,
It appears that the work starting on the 210 S Fremont street project. Will nearby
residents be updated as the project moves forward? It was a bit of a surprise to see
equipment dropped this week & concrete being torn up at the corner of 3rd &
Fremont this morning. Is this part of the 210 project? I thought that plot was a
separate set of plans that have not been approved.
Thanks,
Cassandra Garcia
Please excuse any typos. Sent from my iPhone
 

--- page 61 ---
From:
To:
Linda Ly
Subject:
222 S. Fremont St. - Gateway Terrance Condominiums Pre-App
Date:
Tuesday, October 19, 2021 5:23:39 PM
Hi Linda,
I am unable to attend the upcoming neighborhood meeting due to conflict but I want to raise
issues/concerns about this project as I am a resident of 221 S. Fremont St. 
This condominium is not equipped with enough parking stalls.  59 stalls for a 40 unit
complex.  There should be a minimum of 80 stalls excluding handicap and guest
parking.  I know not providing adequate parking will cause an even higher increase in
the number of people parking their vehicles on the street.  
Parking During Construction - we have seen an increase in the number of cars parking
from the site (Fremont St., 2nd street) during the demo of this project.  I have also seen
food trucks come and park for extended periods of times causing congestion for
residents to drive through or find street parking.  How are we planning on discouraging
long time parking on the street and preventing street vendors from parking extended
periods of time?
Garbage - with more workers and volume on the street due to construction workers,
food trucks, we have seen more trash on the streets than ever before.  We have also seen
nowhere for people to dispose of their garbage.  There used to be a trash can on the
corner of Fremont and 3rd.  That no longer is there.  How can we prevent
additional trash being tossed on the streets?
Nails - With any construction project there are nails that will be accidentally dropped on
the streets.  With the higher increase in punctured tires, who will pay for these
additional costs that the residents will have to pay for punctured tires.  Just the removal
of the wooden fence has caused what I suspect is me and my neighbor's tires to go flat
from a nail on 2nd street.
-- 
Best,
Chris Yuan
 

--- page 62 ---
From:
To:
Linda Ly
Subject:
Re: Status of 200 S. Fremont Street - Fremont Terrace
Date:
Wednesday, May 25, 2022 8:42:47 PM
Attachments:
image002.png
image003.png
image010.png
image011.png
image012.png
image013.png
image009.png
Hi Linda,
Somehow this went to my spam folder, and I'm just now seeing this. Thanks for the
response. It looks like the new contractor is maintaining the property much better, and
that is a relief to see.
Binh
On Thursday, April 28, 2022, 12:03:28 PM CDT, Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:
Hi Binh,
I received an update from our building staff regarding the permit. It seems the original contractor for the
project withdrew earlier this year, so the owner had to select a replacement contractor. It takes time to
reassign all the permits.
Thanks,
Linda
Linda Ly 李嘉歡
Associate Planner | Community Development Department
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7217 | lly@cityofsanmateo.org
From: Linda Ly 
Sent: Thursday, April 28, 2022 9:58 AM
To: jhwkr 
Subject: RE: Status of 200 S. Fremont Street - Fremont Terrace
Hi Binh,
The original approval for 200 S. Fremont did not include review of the adjacent parcel (222 S Fremont).
The planning application is required to ensure that adequate tree protection, construction worker parking,
phasing, etc are met. Staff is assisting the developer with getting it back on track.
The building permit is held up by other aspects. I recommend reaching out to
building.info@cityofsanmateo.org if you have questions specific to the building permit.

--- page 63 ---
Let me know if you have further questions.
Thanks,
Linda
Linda Ly 李嘉歡
Associate Planner | Community Development Department
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7217 | lly@cityofsanmateo.org
From: jhwkr 
Sent: Sunday, April 24, 2022 9:37 PM
To: Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Status of 200 S. Fremont Street - Fremont Terrace
Hello Linda,
I'm inquiring about the status of the Fremont Terrace project. There hasn't seem to be
any progress in two months now. I see a permit was requested for staging in their
adjacent parcel. Is this what's holding up the project? It seemed like that parcel had
been used for much of the project already.
Thanks,
Binh Thai
*

--- page 64 ---
From:
To:
Linda Ly
Subject:
Re: Question about 200 S. Fremont Street - Fremont Terrace
Date:
Thursday, April 28, 2022 3:00:52 PM
Attachments:
image003.png
image004.png
image005.png
image006.png
image007.png
image008.png
Thanks, Linda, for the quick response. 
Eric
On Thu, Apr 28, 2022 at 2:57 PM Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:
Hi Eric,
 
The original contractor withdrew earlier this year and the property owner needed time to
select a new contractor and to get the permits reassigned. There are also some outstanding
items that need to be addressed in order to get them back on track, such as tree protection,
etc. We have informed the property owner to continue maintaining the site. Let me know if
you have any further questions or concerns. I apologize for the inconvenience.
 
Thanks,
Linda
 
Linda Ly 李嘉歡
Associate Planner | Community Development Department
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7217 | lly@cityofsanmateo.org
 
 
 
 
 
From: Eric Wohlford 
 
Sent: Thursday, April 28, 2022 2:50 PM
To: Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Question about 200 S. Fremont Street - Fremont Terrace
 
 

--- page 65 ---
Hi Linda,
 
I live near this project, and the construction has been stopped for at least the last couple
months. There is just a big hole in the ground and it is kind of an eyesore. We can't use the
sidewalks near it which is also frustrating given that there is nothing happening. I am
wondering if you can give me an update on the status of this project and what is the reason
for the delay going on. 
 
Thanks,
 
Eric Wohlford
 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3055/200-S-Fremont-Street
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any
attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed.
It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not
the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this
message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error,
please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete
this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.
 

--- page 66 ---
From:
Latchezar Radev
To:
Ben Chan
Cc:
Mike Titsworth; Linda Ly
Subject:
RE: Comment on public hearing PA-2021-073
Date:
Tuesday, July 19, 2022 11:19:15 AM
Attachments:
image001.png
image003.png
image004.png
image005.png
image006.png
image007.png
image008.png
image010.png
image002.png
image009.png
image026.png
image027.png
image028.png
image029.png
image031.png
image032.png
Hi Ben,
I see in your e-mail a request for documents regarding public safety requirements (engineering
report, justification statements) of 200 South Fremont St project.
San Mateo Building Division reviewed and approved a project for a new 4- story residential building
with a single level underground garage at 200 S Fremont St.
The project was reviewed for compliance with all fire & life safety and structural regulations covered
by the building codes in CCR Title 24 and in compliance with referenced structural standards.
The following building permits are issued for proposed 4-story, 15-unit residential structure and
parking garage:
BD2019-273124 Demolition Permit
BD2019-271576 Foundations
BD2019-272990 Shoring/Excavation
BD2018-269636 Superstructure Combo
If you want to see the available public records for this project, please send a request here and the
City will respond within 10 calendar days.
Keep in mind building plans and calculations are covered by the copyright protection law. You are
welcome to take a look and review public record electronic files in the city hall with
assistance from our permit center specialists but cannot obtain a copy or reproduce the plan
without written authorization by the architects/engineers who prepared them.
Let me know if you have any other questions!
Sincerely,
Latchezar Radev, P.E., LEED AP, CASp
interim plan check supervisor | CDD/Building
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403

--- page 67 ---
650-522-7228 | lradev@cityofsanmateo.org
San Mateo Online Permit Center lets you submit building permit and planning applications
securely online. Visit https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4294/Online-Permit-Center 
From: Ben Chan 
 
Sent: Monday, July 18, 2022 7:26 PM
To: Mike Titsworth <mtitsworth@cityofsanmateo.org>; Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org>;
Latchezar Radev <lradev@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Fwd: Comment on public hearing PA-2021-073
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Ben Chan 
Date: Mon, Jul 18, 2022 at 7:23 PM
Subject: Re: Comment on public hearing PA-2021-073
To: Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: Margaret Williams <mwilliams@cityofsanmateo.org>, Adam Nugent
<anugent@cityofsanmateo.org>, John Ebneter <jebneter@cityofsanmateo.org>, Seema Patel
<spatel@cityofsanmateo.org>, City Attorney's Office <CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org>,
Binh Thai 
, Noreen Chiu 
Hi Linda,
I agreed the office trailer is needed since the building project was approved.
Hi Mike and Latch,
Please provide me with any documents regarding the public safety requirements; such as
engineering report on the structure, any compliance and justification statements, etc. I have a friend
who is a civil engineer working at Cal Tran. So, we can have another professional eye on it.
Thanks.
Ben

--- page 68 ---
On Mon, Jul 18, 2022 at 3:52 PM Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:
Hi Ben,
I also want to clarify that the public hearing item scheduled for July 26, 2022 is to review extensive
off-site construction staging at the vacant parcel. Although the staging is associated with 200 S.
Fremont Street, that housing project was previously approved in 2016.
Thanks,
Linda
Linda Ly 李嘉歡
Associate Planner | Community Development Department
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7217 | lly@cityofsanmateo.org
From: Linda Ly 
Sent: Monday, July 18, 2022 3:37 PM
To: Ben Chan 
; Margaret Williams <mwilliams@cityofsanmateo.org>;
Adam Nugent <anugent@cityofsanmateo.org>; John Ebneter <jebneter@cityofsanmateo.org>;
Seema Patel <spatel@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Attorney's Office
<CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org>; Binh Thai 
; Noreen Chiu
Subject: RE: Comment on public hearing PA-2021-073
Hi Ben,
Thank you for your comments. I wanted to note that a building permit is required for the
temporary office trailer to ensure that it complies with structural and other Building Code
requirements.
I will forward your question regarding 200 S. Fremont St. to our Building Official. Feel free to give
me a call at 650-522-7217 if you have other concerns.
Thanks,
Linda
Linda Ly 李嘉歡
Associate Planner | Community Development Department
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7217 | lly@cityofsanmateo.org

--- page 69 ---
From: Ben Chan 
 
Sent: Sunday, July 17, 2022 9:15 AM
To: rmaldonado@cityofsanmateo.org; Margaret Williams <mwilliams@cityofsanmateo.org>;
Adam Nugent <anugent@cityofsanmateo.org>; John Ebneter <jebneter@cityofsanmateo.org>;
Seema Patel <spatel@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Attorney's Office
<CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org>; Linda Ly <lly@cityofsanmateo.org>; Binh Thai
; Noreen Chiu 
Subject: Comment on public hearing PA-2021-073
Hi Linda, Commissioner:
I oppose the installation of an office trailer on the Vacant Lot due to the safety concern of office
workers with the probability of the building crashing onto them during a natural disaster.
Here is HAA's public health and safety definition:
" The HAA provides that a “specific, adverse impact” means a significant, quantifiable, direct, and
unavoidable impact, based on objective, identified written public health or safety standards,
policies, or conditions as they existed on the date the application was deemed complete.
Inconsistency with the zoning ordinance or general plan land use designation is not such a
specific, adverse impact upon the public health or safety. (Gov. Code, § 65589.5, subds. (d)(2) and
(j)(1)(A).) 
The HAA considers that such impacts would be rare: “It is the intent of the Legislature that the
conditions that would have a specific, adverse impact upon the public health and safety, as
described in paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) and paragraph (1) of subdivision (j), arise
infrequently.” (Gov. Code, § 65589.5, subd. (a)(3).)" 
I urged the City to re-examine the building project of 200 S. Fremont St. for the following reasons:
(1) The project was approved by the City without regard to the public safety of our neighbor. The
adjacent house is a single-story home located at 720 2nd Ave. By allowing the construction of a
high-rise 4-story building next to a single-story house, the City endangers the residents at 720 2nd
Ave by exposing them to a sudden death when the high-rise building collapses and crashes onto
the single-story home. The City was also not transparent to the public that it had addressed this
mandatory public safety requirement.
(2) The process of approval was also in question. We complained in the hearing that a public
hearing was held in a remote area and the timing was such that it was a time many of our
neighbors were out of town. Please re-examine the ethics code of the developer who was
obviously manipulating the neighbor's voice.
Thanks.
Ben Chan
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is
intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain

--- page 70 ---
S. Fremont Street
Vacant Lot, Special Use Permit for
Off-Site Construction Staging
(PA-2021-073)
Planning Commission Public Hearing
July 26, 2022
Linda Ly, Associate Planner
Community Development Department

--- page 71 ---
S. Fremont Street
Vacant Lot, Special Use Permit for
Off-Site Construction Staging
(PA-2021-073)
Planning Commission Public Hearing
July 26, 2022
Linda Ly, Associate Planner
Community Development Department

--- page 72 ---
PROJECT SITE
•
1 Parcel (20,134 sq. ft.)
•
Vacant Lot – former Gas Station
•
General Plan Land Use –  
Multiple Family Dwellings for 
Downtown, Medium High 
Density
•
Zoning District – R4-D
•
Adjacent Uses – Single- and 
Multi-Family Residential
3
200 S. Fremont St. 
Construction
Project
Staging Site
Vacant Lot

--- page 73 ---
4
N
Staging Site
Staging Site
200 S. Fremont Street
200 S. Fremont Street
PROJECT SITE
•
1 Parcel (20,134 sq. ft.)
•
Vacant Lot – former Gas Station
•
General Plan Land Use –  
Multiple Family Dwellings for 
Downtown, Medium High 
Density
•
Zoning District – R4-D
•
Adjacent Uses – Single- and 
Multi-Family Residential
Google Earth September 2021. 
Google Earth September 2021. Approximate boundaries shown for reference and not to scale.
Approximate boundaries shown for reference and not to scale.

--- page 74 ---
CODE AND POLICY REVIEW
5
• R4-D Zoning District
• Off-site construction staging is not specified as an allowed or special use
• R4-D incorporates other permitted and special uses in the R1, R2 and R3 Districts
• R1 District allows temporary buildings for construction purposes not to exceed project 
duration
• Special Use Permit (SUP)
• Planning Commission is authorized to grant an SUP for non-designated uses that are 
similar to any allowed use in the district or if the project involves unresolved city 
policies or public controversy

--- page 75 ---
PROJECT BACKGROUND
6
• Staging associated with adjacent 200 S. 
Fremont St. construction project
• Timeline:
• Summer 2021 – Use began unpermitted
• Summer/Fall 2021 – Applicant directed to 
obtain SUP. Complaints to City about site 
conditions (soil stockpile, tree protection, 
unpermitted structure)
• January-February 2022—Use of subject site 
paused for site condition corrections and 
subject SUP application submitted to the City
• May 2022—Construction resumes on 200 S. 
Fremont. Vacant lot pending SUP approval.
200 S. Fremont Street
Construction Project

--- page 76 ---
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
7
• Proposed off-site construction staging 
activities:
• 35 Construction Worker Parking Stalls
• 1 Office Trailer
• Storage of Construction Materials and 
Stockpile Soil
• Temporary Power Pole
• Estimated completion: May 31, 2023
200 S. Fremont Street
Construction Project
Staging Site

--- page 77 ---
Site Photos

——— CITY OF SAN MATEO ————— 8


--- page 78 ---
Construction Management Plan
9
• Pedestrian and Traffic Management Plan 
with traffic control personnel
• Community notification and complaint 
management
• Comply with Best Management Practices:
• Cover stockpile soil at all times
• Protect nearby storm drain inlets
• Secure and maintain site fencing

--- page 79 ---
Tree Protection Plan
10
•
Arborist Report confirming eight (8) 
existing trees, including four (4) Protected 
Trees
•
Establish Tree Protection Zone at the fence 
line and/or dripline of all Protected Trees
•
Construction activities, parking and 
materials shall be staged outside the Tree 
Protection Zone

--- page 80 ---
PUBLIC COMMENTS
11
• Neighborhood Informational Meeting (October 25, 2021) with six attendees
• 9 public comments received
• Input includes the following:
• Construction activity impacts and closures of sidewalk and streets
• Site maintenance concerns
• Lack of notification
• Project schedule and timeline

--- page 81 ---
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION
•
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
•
Categorically exempt 
•
Class 4, Section 15304
•
Minor Temporary Use of Land for off-site construction staging
12

--- page 82 ---
RECOMMENDATION
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Special Use Permit for the use of a 
vacant lot for construction material storage and worker parking 
associated with the active construction project 200 S. Fremont Street; 
and accept the Categorical Exemption from environmental review 
based on the Findings for Approval and subject to the Conditions of 
Approval. 
13

--- page 83 ---
Thank You
Linda Ly, Associate Planner
Community Development Department
LLy@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7217
14

--- page 84 ---
VICTOR CATANZARO
650.574.1000
The information contained herein has been obtained from sources we 
deem reliable. We have no reason to doubt its accuracy but we do not 
guarantee it. All information
SUP: Special Use Permit 
222 South Fremont St 
Staging for Construction at 
200 South Fremont St
REGAN CATANZARO
650.574.1000
Presented by Fremont Terrace 
Associates
vic@wspre.com
regan@wspre.com
should be verified prior to purchase or lease by the prospective buyer 
or tenant.

--- page 85 ---
Truck Haul Route
Q Mercado El Naya11ta
Paws Dog Camp
 -1.-=
  ,;-c• Baby Sleps
''&.
, El
Second Baptist Church
lacedonm Church
f God CtHtst
<:,Sn Ma0
Humboldt House Q
J  ..
().k
,,..;.':>
· .--'
,...\
Gateway Park
:.
0
00 South Fremont Street El
Q
Hassett Ace Hard•.,.,are
..:-;..'":.'•
o Stat1011  o:,.
Shell
E J  
..
A Music Connecuon
f t Y  Downtown S.:in 
1on
1
Mnteo Asock1t
Jacf· 1 • th • G .n
t lJrllOfl
1:1
9
Q 7 - Eleven
Chr·.·ron
'.'ault 1 L•l r.\
Century 12 San Mateo
r.un .md Bar,..
(i) 16
l 8, 11
:ncso 
vice
WalgreensQ
b1gfatqu1ta11st
Delivery Route to 
Site
Truck Hauling Away 
from Site
VICTOR CATANZARO
650.574.1000
vic@wspre.com
REGAN CATANZARO
650.574.1000
regan@wspre.com
The information contained herein has been obtained from sources we 
deem reliable. We have no reason to doubt its accuracy but we do not 
guarantee it. All information should be verified prior to purchase or lease 
by the prospective buyer or tenant.
Fremont Terrace 
Associates
Presented by

--- page 86 ---
Construction plan for current site conditions through concrete form installation 
and concrete wall pour in below grade garage level:
VICTOR CATANZARO
650.574.1000
vic@wspre.com
REGAN CATANZARO
650.574.1000
regan@wspre.com
The information contained herein has been obtained from sources we 
deem reliable. We have no reason to doubt its accuracy but we do not 
guarantee it. All information should be verified prior to purchase or lease 
by the prospective buyer or tenant.
Fremont Terrace 
Associates
Presented by

--- page 87 ---
Construction plan after soil is backfilled against below grade garage level
VICTOR CATANZARO
650.574.1000
vic@wspre.com
REGAN CATANZARO
650.574.1000
regan@wspre.com
The information contained herein has been obtained from sources we 
deem reliable. We have no reason to doubt its accuracy but we do not 
guarantee it. All information should be verified prior to purchase or lease 
by the prospective buyer or tenant.
Fremont Terrace 
Associates
Presented by

--- page 88 ---
Construction plan after SUP approval
VICTOR CATANZARO
650.574.1000
vic@wspre.com
REGAN CATANZARO
650.574.1000
regan@wspre.com
The information contained herein has been obtained from sources we 
deem reliable. We have no reason to doubt its accuracy but we do not 
guarantee it. All information should be verified prior to purchase or lease 
by the prospective buyer or tenant.
Fremont Terrace 
Associates
Presented by

--- page 89 ---
D
el
ROAD 
CONSTRUCTION 
AHEAD
FLAGMAN
CONES
ARROW BOARD
RIGHT LANE 
CLOSED 
AHEAD
ROAD CONSTRUCTION 
AHEAD
LEFT LANE 
CLOSED 
AHEAD
PROJECT SITE
SIDEWALK 
CLOSE D
USE
OTHER S IDE
SIDEWALK
CLOSED 
USE
OTHER 
SIDE
Not To Scale
CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCES - PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT PLAN
PRIMARY TRUCK
HAULING 
ENTRANCE/EXIT
LEFTLANE 
CLOSED 
AHEAD
RIGHT 
LANE 
CLOSED 
AHEAD
PARKING AREA
SIDEWALK 
CLOSED 
USE
OTHER 
SIDE
SIDEWALK 
CLOSED 
USE
OTHER 
SIDE
South El Dorado
South Fremont St
Lawrence 
Ave
East 3rd Avenue
2nd Avenue
SIDEWALK 
CLOSED 
PAST S . EL 
DORADO 
ST. 
USE 
OTHER 
SIDE
South Delaware St
->
NORT
H
CROSSWALK 
CLOSED 
USE 
OTHER SIDE 
CROSSWALK 
CLOSED 
USE 
OTHER SIDE 
PARKING
ENTRANCE/EXIT
st width 37 ft
st width 41 ft
20'
20'
st width 41 ft
6ft Fence
15'
22'
Pagel3 
 
-

--- page 90 ---
VICTOR CATANZARO
650.574.1000
vic@wspre.com
SUP: Special Use 
Permit 222 South 
Fremont St
Staging for Construction at
200 South Fremont St
REGAN CATANZARO
650.574.1000
regan@wspre.com
Fremont Terrace 
Associates
222 S FREMONT 
STAGING SITE
200 S FREMONT 
CONSTRUCTION 
PROJECT SITE

--- page 91 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 22-6375
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
July 26, 2022 
SUBJECT:
31-57 South B Street – Zoning Reclassification Request – C1-2/R5 to CBD (PA-2022-002)
RECOMMENDATION:
Recommend to the City Council adoption of an Ordinance to approve a Zoning Reclassification for the property at 31-57 
South B Street from C1-2/R5 to CBD and determine the project qualifies for a Categorical Exemption from further 
environmental review under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).  
BACKGROUND:
The applicant, DTSM Donut Delite Ventures, LLC, submitted a Planning Application (PA-2022-002) on May 11, 2022, to 
reclassify the zoning designation of the property at 31-57 South B Street (APN 034-154-030) from its current designation of 
C1-2/R5 (Neighborhood Commercial/Residential Overlay – Mixed Use) to CBD (Central Business District).
The applicant is requesting the reclassification of the project site to CBD to match adjacent properties to the south and the 
west, that have the same land use designation (Downtown Retail Core) as the subject property. The site is also located 
within the Downtown Retail Core Sub-Area of the Downtown Area Plan, the majority of which is zoned CBD.
The Planning Commission held a duly noticed study session meeting, on May 10, 2022, to review the zoning reclassification 
request and conceptual plans for a future office and retail development project at this site. Commission comments on the 
reclassification were generally in support of the request given its adjacency to the existing CBD zone and potential for train 
noise impacts on residential uses. The Municipal Code allows for the processing of a Zoning Reclassification as part of a 
formal Planning Application (PA) that includes a development project or as a stand-alone PA without a development 
proposal. The zoning reclassification requires a recommendation from the Planning Commission, with final decision and 
adoption of the Ordinance by the City Council. The Draft Ordinance is included as Attachment 1. 
DISCUSSION: 
California State law (Government Code Section 65400) provides the city’s legislative body the authority to implement the 
City’s adopted General Plan, so that it will serve as an effective guide for orderly growth and development. To implement 
the General Plan, state law provides the City Council the authority to review and update the City’s Zoning Ordinance and 
zoning map to ensure that the various land uses authorized by the zoning ordinance are compatible with the objectives, 
policies, general land uses, and programs specified in the general plan (Government Code Section 65860).   
Site Description
The project site is 16,413 square feet (0.37 acres) in size and is generally bounded by South B Street to the west, 
commercial buildings to the north, the Downtown Caltrain Station to the east, and First Avenue to the south. The project 
site has a current General Plan land use designation of Downtown Retail Core and is zoned C1-2/R5 (Neighborhood

--- page 92 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Commercial/ Residential Overlay – Mixed Use).  
As part of the Planning Application, the applicant included a justification letter (Attachment 2) that cites several reasons as 
a basis for the City to approve the reclassification of the subject property to CBD.  The two primary reasons include that 
the reclassification would match adjacent properties to the south and the west that have the same land use designation 
(Downtown Retail Core) as the subject property, and that the reclassification would link the CBD zoning requirements with 
the General Plan and Downtown Area Plan goals and policies to foster a thriving retail core area. 
General Plan and Zoning Code 
The General Plan Land Use Map designates the project site as Downtown Retail Core. The Downtown Retail Core land use 
designation was established to provide for development of land pursuant to the General Plan and Downtown Plan goals 
and policies to create an emphasis on a strong retail shopping core in downtown. The Land Use, Zoning, and Required 
Frontage Maps are included as Attachment 3. The Applicable Policies for the Downtown retail core area include ensuring 
that new developments “optimize the development potential of property in major commercial areas such as the 
Downtown Retail Core” (GP, LU 2.10) and “preserve the downtown’s core shopping area” (DAP, II.1). A list of applicable 
policies are included as Attachment 4.
The site has a current zoning designation of C1-2/R5 (Neighborhood Commercial/Residential Overlay – Mixed Use) which is 
intended to create and maintain neighborhood shopping areas with standards that provide for compatibility with 
surrounding residential areas, and allows for retail uses serving the immediate neighborhood, limited office space and 
personal service uses (SMMC 27.30.005 Purpose). In addition to different use allowances, the San Mateo Municipal Code 
development standards also differ for the two zones. The current zoning designation of C1-2/R5 (SMMC 27.30) has 
development standards pertaining to floor area ratio (FAR), setbacks, parcel coverage, and refers to R3 zoning (SMMC 
27.22) for development standards for residential uses which limits density to a maximum of 50 units per acre. Under C1-
2/R5, the site has a maximum of 2.0 floor area ratio (FAR) for non-residential projects, and up to 3.0 FAR for projects with 
residential use as part the project. 
The proposed CBD (Central Business District) zoning designation was established to implement the General Plan and 
Downtown Plan goals and policies to encourage and foster a thriving retail core area in downtown (SMMC 27.38.010 
Purpose). The Municipal Code requirements for CBD include development standards pertaining to floor area ratio, ground 
floor open space, building line and setbacks for open space, required retail frontage requirement, and limits density to a 
maximum of 50 dwelling units per acre. Under the proposed CBD zoning reclassification, the site would have a maximum 
FAR of 3.0, with or without any residential component. The reclassification would enable the subject property’s zoning 
designation to align with its General Plan land use designation of Downtown Retail Core. A summary data sheet showing 
the different zoning standards for the two zones is included as Attachment 5.  
Downtown Area Plan 
The project site is also located within the City’s Downtown Area Plan (Plan). The Plan establishes goals and policies to 
implement the overall vision of the downtown area. Applicable goals that pertain to the project include: 
•
Enhance Downtown’s Role as the City Center and Maintain Its Unique Sense of Place 
•
Enhance the Vitality and Activity of Downtown by Incorporating an Overall Good Mix and Diversity of Uses 
•
Enhance the Downtown’s Pedestrian Environment and Enhance the Safety and Attractiveness of Downtown 
The Downtown Area Plan is comprised of seven sub-areas including the Downtown Retail Core Sub-Area. The subject site is 
located in the Downtown Retail Core Sub-Area as shown in Figure 2 of the Downtown Area Plan. The goals and policies for 
the Downtown Retail Core Sub-Area generally encourage a concentration of retail shopping and active commercial uses on 
the ground floor level, with office or residential uses on upper levels to support ground-level businesses. The Plan 
envisions a future Downtown Retail Core that includes a good mix of ground floor retail uses that will contribute to 
fostering retail vitality and downtown’s pedestrian-oriented environment; and providing an entry feature at the entryways 
to downtown in the vicinity of South B Street/First Avenue intersection (Attachment 4 – Applicable Policies).To implement 
the goals and policies of the General Plan and Downtown Area Plan for the retail core, the city has two tools: CDB 
development standards and Downtown Retail Core Design Guidelines. Both the CDB and the design guidelines were

--- page 93 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
established to work together to implement the goals and policies for the retail core area.  Overall, the proposed 
reclassification to CBD would align subject project’s zoning designation with it's current Downtown Retail Core land use 
designation, and align the city’s goals and policies with the tools to implement.  
Housing Crisis Act
Senate Bill 330 (Housing Crisis Act, Government Code Section 66300(b)(1)(A)) requires the City to review and evaluate 
zoning reclassifications to ensure the change does not constitute a downzoning for residential development purposes 
under the state law. The proposed zoning reclassification does not involve a change in the allowable building height, 
maximum allowable density, or floor area ratio (FAR); nor would it increase requirements for lot size, setbacks, or other 
development requirements or standards that would lessen the intensity of housing. The proposed CBD zoning designation 
also allows for a maximum residential density of 50 dwelling units per acre, which is the same maximum residential density 
allowed for properties in the C1-3/R5 zoning district. Therefore, there would be no net loss in residential capacity as a 
result of this zoning reclassification.     
Zoning Reclassification Findings
The zoning reclassification to CBD would better align the site with its Downtown Retail Core land use designation, which is 
consistent with the General Plan because one of the main intents of the CBD is to maintain downtown’s commercial 
vitality and continuity within the retail core. The reclassification is consistent with the Downtown Area Plan because the 
zoning code provisions for the CBD includes development standards that were established to provide a good mix of ground 
floor retail uses that will contribute to foster retail vitality and downtown’s pedestrian-oriented environment in the 
Downtown Retail Core sub-area. 
The reclassification to CBD conforms with the purpose of Municipal Code Section 27.38.010(c) in that the reclassification 
ensures that the zoning code provisions for the CBD District would regulate and guide future development of the subject 
site. The reclassification is also consistent with state law (SB 330 Housing Crisis Act) in that it would not change the land 
use or the maximum allowable residential density, and future development projects at the site would be subject to the 
requirements of CBD district with zoning code provisions that are intended to better implement the General Plan goals and 
policies for properties in the Downtown Retail Core land use area, than the zoning code requirements for applicable to 
properties in the C1 district. 
Once the Planning Commission makes a recommendation, the City Council will hold a public hearing to consider the zoning 
reclassification request.  If the Council approves the request, the Ordinance will be introduced, and will be brought back 
for adoption at a subsequent meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENTS: 
The applicant held a formal pre-application neighborhood meeting, on April 11, 2022, in which six members of the public 
attended. Questions and comments were focused primarily on the development project and proposed uses. The 
applicant’s neighborhood meeting summary and presentation are available on the city’s What’s Happening webpage. 
Public comments submitted to City staff during the pre-application phase are available on City’s Agendas & Minutes Public 
Meeting Portal. 
Staff has not received any public comments since the Planning Commission study session. Any public comments received 
after publication of this agenda report will be forwarded to the Planning Commission for consideration at the public 
hearing and will be posted to this item online as “Post Packet Public Comments.”
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines Class 5, Section 15305 (Minor Alterations in 
Land Use Limitations), the zoning reclassification from C1-2/R5 to CBD is categorically exempt from further environmental 
review because the site has an average slope of less than 20 percent and the reclassification would not result in changes in 
land use or density. The subject property’s General Plan land use designation of Downtown Retail Core would remain 
unchanged, the maximum 3.0 FAR intensity would not change and the maximum density of 50 units per acre would remain 
the same. Additionally, the zoning reclassification would be consistent with the City’s adopted General Plan and

--- page 94 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Downtown Area Plan. The project is also separately and independently exempt under the “common sense” exemption, 
CEQA Section 15061(b)(3), because it can be seen with certainty that the adoption of the zoning reclassification does not 
involve the construction or alteration of facilities that will have a significant effect on the environment. The reclassification 
to CBD is consistent with the General Plan land use designation for the property. Furthermore, any future development of 
the site would be subject to a project specific environmental assessment consistent with the CEQA statues and guidelines 
in effect at that time.     
NOTICE PROVIDED:
In accordance with Government Code sections 65090 and 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code public noticing 
requirements, the notice for this public hearing was published in a local newspaper of general circulation, posted in three 
public facilities, and noticed to the following parties at least ten (10) days in advance of Planning Commission meeting:
•
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site;
•
The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects;
•
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and,
•
The interested parties list which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list accordance. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Draft Ordinance
Att 2 – Applicant’s Letter
Att 3 – Zoning, Land Use and Required Frontage Maps
Att 4 – Applicable Policies
Att 5 – Summary Data Sheet
STAFF CONTACT
Julia Klein, Principal Planner
Jklein@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7216

--- page 95 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
DRAFT ORDINANCE 
 
AMENDING THE ZONING MAP OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO TO RECLASSIFY 
THE SITE AT 31-57 SOUTH B STREET 
FROM C1-2/R5 (NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIA/RESIDENTIAL OVERLAY – MIXED USE)  
TO CBD (CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT) IN ORDER TO IMPLEMENT THE 
GENERAL PLAN LAND USE POLICIES AND LAND USE MAP  
 
WHEREAS, the property owner (DTSM Donut Delite Ventures, LLC) has submitted a planning 
application (PA-2022-002) requesting zoning reclassification of the property located at 31-57 South B 
Street (APN 034-154-030); and 
 
WHEREAS, the California State law (Government Code Section 65400) provides the legislative 
body of the city with the authority to implement the general plan, or elements of the general plan, so 
that it will serve as an effective guide for orderly growth and development; and  
 
WHEREAS, the City Council, as the legislative body of the City of San Mateo, adopted the City of 
San Mateo’s General Plan “Vision 2030” on October 18, 2010, which included land use policies and land 
use designations for properties within the City; and 
 
WHEREAS, the General Plan land use designation of Downtown Retail Core was established to 
provide for development of land pursuant to the goals and policies of the General Plan and Downtown 
Area Plan; and  
 
WHEREAS, the CBD (Central Business District) zoning designation and Downtown Retail Core 
Design Guidelines were established to work together to implement the General Plan and Downtown 
Plan goals and policies, to improve the quality of the retail core, and to encourage and foster a thriving 
Downtown Retail Core area and; and  
 
WHEREAS, the City Council desires that the zoning classifications for all properties be consistent 
with the land use policies and the land use map of the General Plan; and 
 
WHEREAS, the subject property has a current General Plan land use designation of Downtown 
Retail Core and a zoning designation of C1-2/R5 (Neighborhood Commercial/Residential Overlay – Mixed 
Use); and  
 
WHEREAS, the zoning reclassification from C1-2/R5 to CBD would be compatible with the 
subject property’s Downtown Retail Core land use designation; and  
 
WHEREAS, the zoning reclassification would ensure that subsequent new development at the 
subject property would be subject to CBD development standards and Downtown Retail Core Design 
Guidelines to ensure that new development would contribute to a thriving retail core; and      
 
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed study session on May 10, 2022, at 
which time the Commission received and considered written and oral evidence, and provided feedback 
on the Pre-Application for the Zoning Reclassification and conceptual design of a development project; 
and

--- page 96 ---
WHEREAS, in accordance with California Government Code Section 65090 and 65091, the 
Planning Commission held a public hearing on July 26, 2022 pursuant to the notice required by law for 
zoning reclassifications, at which time the Commission received and considered written and oral 
evidence; and  
 
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission, by a majority of its members, recommended that the City 
Council ____. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, ORDAINS AS 
FOLLOWS: 
 
Section 1.  
LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS. At a duly noticed public hearing on ____________, the City 
Council of the City of San Mateo reviewed and considered the staff report dated _________, and 
attachments thereto, the Categorical Exemption, together with comments received during the public 
review process, and hereby finds and determines as follows:  
 
(a) CONFOMANCE WITH GENERAL PLAN. The City Council finds and determines that the 
proposed zoning map amendment and zoning reclassification of the subject property is in 
conformance with the Downtown Retail Core land use designation of the General Plan of 
the City of San Mateo, because one of the main intents of the CBD (Central Business District) 
is to maintain downtown’s commercial vitality and continuity within the retail core. 
 
(b) CONFORMANCE WITH DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN. The City Council finds and determines that 
the proposed zoning map amendment and zoning reclassification is in conformance with 
2009 Downtown Area Plan because the zoning standards for the CBD (Central Business 
District) includes development standards that were established to provide a good mix of 
ground floor retail uses that will contribute to foster retail vitality and downtown’s 
pedestrian-oriented environment in the Downtown Retail Core sub-area.    
 
(c) INTENT OF ZONING CODE. The zoning reclassification conforms to the purpose of Municipal 
Code Section 27.38.010(c) in that the reclassification ensures that the zoning code 
provisions regarding the required retail frontage area, as designated by the Downtown Plan, 
would apply to the subject property. Additionally, the reclassification provides standards for 
the use of properties designated as CBD District (Central Business District) that regulate and 
guide future development of the site. 
 
(d) CONSISTENCY WITH STATE LAW. The City Council finds and determines that the proposed 
zoning map amendment and zoning reclassification of the property located at 31-57 South B 
Street from C1-2/R5 to CBD is consistent with Senate Bill 330 (Housing Crisis Act, 
Government Code Section 66300(b)(1)(A)) in that: 
1) the proposed change in zoning designation would not reduce the allowable building 
height, maximum allowable density, or floor area ratio (FAR) for residential 
developments; nor would it increase requirements for lot size requirements, 
setbacks, or other development standards that would reduce residential density; 
2) the proposed CBD zoning designation allows for a maximum residential density of 
50 dwelling units per acre, which is the same maximum residential density allowed 
for properties in the C1-2/R5 zoning district; and

--- page 97 ---
3) therefore, there is no net loss in residential capacity.       
 
 
Section 2. 
ZONING MAP. The Zoning Map of the City of San Mateo is hereby amended to indicate 
as follows: the property generally known as 31-57 South B Street (APN: APN 034-154-030) as depicted in 
Exhibit A, attached hereto, shall be rezoned from C1-2/R5 to CBD, and the Zoning Map shall be amended 
to reflect this reclassification. 
 
Section 3. 
CEQA. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines Class 
5, Section 15305 (Minor Alterations in Land Use Limitations), adoption of this zoning reclassification to 
amend the City’s zoning map is categorically exempt because the affected area has an average slope of 
less than 20 percent and the reclassification would not result in changes in land use or density. The 
subject property’s General Plan land use designation of Downtown Retail Core, and maximum density of 
50 units per acre would remain unchanged after the reclassification. The project is also separately and 
independently exempt under the “common sense” exemption, CEQA Section 15061(b)(3), because it can 
be seen with certainty that the adoption of the zoning reclassification does not involve the construction 
or alteration of facilities that will have a significant effect on the environment. The reclassification to 
CBD is consistent with the General Plan land use designation for the property. Furthermore, any future 
development of the site would be subject to a project specific environmental assessment consistent 
with the CEQA statues and guidelines in effect at that time.      
 
Section 4.  
SEVERABILITY. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance is 
for any reason held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the other 
remaining portions of this ordinance. The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed this 
ordinance and each section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that 
any one or more section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase be declared unconstitutional. 
 
Section 5. 
PUBLICATION. In accordance with City Charter Section 2.15, this Ordinance shall be 
published once in a newspaper of general circulation before becoming effective. 
 
Section 6. 
EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance was introduced on _________, adopted on 
__________, and shall take effect 30 days after adoption. 
 
The foregoing ordinance was adopted by the City Council of the City of San Mateo, California by the 
following vote:  
 
 
AYES:  
NOES: 
ABSENT:  
 
ATTEST:

--- page 98 ---
Manira Sandhir 
Planning Manager 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Dear Ms. Sandhir: 
DTSM Donut Delite Venture, LLC (“Applicant”) requests that 31-57 B Street (APN 034-15-4030) 
(“Property”) be rezoned from the C1-2/R5 (Neighborhood Commercial) zoning district to the CBD 
(Central Business District) zoning district.  The reclassification would result in the Property having the 
same zoning and development rights as properties located immediately to the Property’s south and 
west that are in the same Downtown Area Plan Sub-Area and that have the same General Plan, 
Downtown Area Plan, FAR, and Required Retail Frontage Zone designations.  
Pursuant to Municipal Code Section 27.80.010(b), the owner of the area proposed to be reclassified has 
the right initiate a reclassification.1  The Applicant owns all of the property requested to be reclassified 
and therefore requests initiation of the processing of a reclassification of the Property.  In the event the 
City determines it appropriate to also reclassify additional parcels within the Downtown Retail Core 
fronting B Street (or if other property owners request to be added to the reclassification), the Applicant 
owns 50% or more in area of all the property similarly situated south of Baldwin Ave and would 
therefore be authorized to request reclassification of such additional property under Municipal Code 
Section 27.80.010(a) (see Exhibit A.) 
As explained further below, it appears that within the Downtown Area Plan, neighborhood commercial 
uses and the C-1 neighborhood commercial zoning designation were intended to be limited to the area 
north of Baldwin Avenue in the North B Tilton Avenue Sub-Area and not in the Downtown Retail Core 
Sub-Area where the Property is located.  It appears that the current neighborhood commercial zoning 
designation on the property is contrary to the intent of the Downtown Area Plan and may have been the 
result of an inadvertent error or a delay in rezoning the property to be consistent with the Downtown 
Area Plan.  
As shown on Downtown Area Plan Figure 2 and 4, the Downtown Area Plan Area is divided into several 
Sub-Areas.  The Property is located within the Downtown Retail Core Sub-Area.  This Sub-Area is located 
approximately 3 parcels south of the boundary of the North B Tilton Avenue Sub-Area to the north.  
Baldwin Avenue serves as the boundary between those two sub areas. 
 
1 Because the Property is surrounded on three sides with properties that share the requested CBD zoning district, 
such a rezoning would be well supported under the caselaw that analyzes the rezoning of a limited number of 
parcels of land. See, e.g., Arcadia Development Co. v. City of Morgan Hill (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1526, 1536.

--- page 99 ---
Excerpt from Downtown Area Plan Figure 2 
 
Downtown Area Plan Neighborhood Commercial Policies 
The Downtown Area Plan explains that the future condition of the North B Tilton Avenue Sub-Area is to 
support existing uses “including neighborhood commercial uses along B Street.”  Consistent with this 
intent, the General Plan and Downton Area Plan designates the private parcels along B Street 
“Neighborhood Commercial/Medium-High Density Multi-Family” (the green parcels in the figure below).

--- page 100 ---
Excerpt from Downtown Area Plan Figure 4 
Those same green Neighborhood Commercial parcels have a FAR limitation of 2.0/3.0 which matches 
the intensity limitation of the C1-2/R5 zoning designation – 2.0 FAR of commercial uses but an additional 
1.0 of FAR is permitted for residential uses.  (§ 27.30.050(d); Zoning Code § 27.29.110(c).)  
 
Neighborhood Commercial is defined by the General Plan as “shopping centers serving the immediate 
neighborhood and including off-street parking, or, clusters of street facing storefronts. These areas 
often include uses such as supermarkets, bakeries, drugstores, restaurants, delicatessens, barber shops, 
hair salons, laundromats, hardware stores, dry cleaners, small offices and other personal services. 
Characterized by a low to medium FARs of 0.5 to 1.0 and heights 25 feet to 45 feet.”  This definition

--- page 101 ---
flows down to the zoning for those parcels with a Neighborhood Commercial/High Density Zoning 
designation (C1-2/R).  The intent of that district is “to create and maintain neighborhood shopping areas 
under standards that provide for compatibility with surrounding residential areas. Uses include retail 
sales serving the immediate neighborhood, limited office space, and personal services.” (Mun Code 
27.30.005.)   
However, the Property has General Plan and Downtown Area Plan Sub-Area Downtown Retail Core 
designations that are not intended for neighborhood commercial uses serving the immediate 
neighborhood.  General Plan LU 2.10 states that the City should “[e]nsure that developments optimize 
the development potential of property in major commercial areas such as the Downtown Retail Core 
and along South El Camino Real.”  The Downtown Area Plan envisions this area to “continue to support 
the retail core shopping area. . . This will require a good mix of ground floor retail uses that will 
contribute to foster retail vitality . . .”  The Plan includes the policy to “encourage the establishment of 
offices with the Downtown Retail Core and commercially designated areas” (Downtown Area Plan Policy 
II.8.)  Downtown Area Plan Policy II.8 notes that the Downtown Retail Core permits FAR of 3.0 to 
encourage the development of offices, but that this is reduced “east of the railroad tracks.”  The 
Property is west of the railroad tracks. 
The General Plan’s Building Intensity designation supports Policy II.8 by giving the Property a 3.0 FAR 
designation while the properties designated Neighborhood Commercial by the Downtown Area Plan are 
designated 2.0/3.0 (which appears to only permit a 2.0 FAR of commercial uses).  This is evidence of the 
zoning of the Property not matching its General Plan designations because C1-2/R5 only permits 2.0 FAR 
by right but an additional 1.0 of FAR is permitted for residential uses.  (§ 27.30.050(d); Zoning Code § 
27.29.110(c).).  Thus, the FAR limitation of 2.0/3.0 is the natural fit for C1-2/R5 properties.  By contrast, 
the CBD district permits 3.0 FARs by right (§ 27.38.060(a)) which matches the Property’s 3.0 FAR 
designation.

--- page 102 ---
Excerpt from General Plan Map LU-5 
Rezoning the Property CBD would also be consistent with the zoning of surrounding properties.  All 
properties with the Downtown Retail Core designation and 3.0 FAR designation are zoned CBD on the 
south side of First Avenue.  There are also properties to the west of Property with those designations 
with the CBD zoning that are located even closer to existing residential uses than the Property:

--- page 103 ---
Excerpt from Zoning Map 
Also, the Property is the only Property with a C1-2/R5 designation that is in the Required Retail Frontage 
Zone.  All other properties within the Required Retail Frontage Zone have a Downtown Retail Core 
designation and are zoned CBD: 
 
Excerpt from Downtown Area Plan Figure 11

--- page 104 ---
Excerpt from Downtown Area Plan Figure 10 
The Downtown Area Plan explains that this zone is intended to “maintain downtown’s commercial 
vitality and continuity within the retail core.”  As further evidence that it appears the Property’s current 
zoning was an oversight, the implementing ordinance for the Required Retail Frontage Zone is found in 
the CBD District regulations and no other zoning district.  (See Mun. Code §§ 27.38.010(c); 27.38.110.)  
This is strong evidence that all properties within the Required Retail Frontage Zone were intended to be 
zoned CBD.  It is unclear how the City would apply the detailed Required Retail Frontage standards in 
Section 27.38.110, such as the uses considered consistent with the zone and minimum dimensions, if 
the Property is not rezoned CBD. 
In summary, there is no indication that neighborhood commercial uses were intended to be prioritized 
within the Downtown Retail Core Sub Area or on properties with the Downtown Retail Core Gernal Plan 
designation.  Neighborhood commercial zoning instead appears to be intended to be located north of 
the terminus of Baldwin Avenue in the North B Street Tilton Avenue Sub-Area that are designated 
neighborhood commercial by both the General Plan and Downtown Area Plan and that have a FAR 
designation of 2.0/3.0.  The intent of the Downtown Area Plan appears to be to provide the Property the 
same development rights as other properties located immediately to its south and west that are in the 
same Sub-Area and have the same General Plan, Downtown Area Plan, FAR designations, and are in the 
Required Retail Frontage Zone.   
 
Thank you for your consideration and please feel free to reach out with any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Preston O’Connell 
DTSM Donut Delite Venture, LLC

--- page 105 ---
itA

Exhib

AVM ¥ALNAD LISNVYL

3.7' PARKING METER

‘age

Roll_ up Gar

N48°41°41"E_ 130.00"


--- page 106 ---
Att 4 – Zoning, Land Use  and Required Retail Frontage Maps 
 
 
Source: City of San Mateo Zoning Map  
 
Excerpt of Zoning Map focusing on the Downtown Area. 
 
 
Zoning map close up of the area surrounding the subject site.  
 
PROJECT SITE

--- page 107 ---
Source: City of San Mateo Land Use Map 
 
Excerpt of General Plan land use map focusing on the Downtown Area.

--- page 108 ---
Source: 2009 Downtown Area Plan 
 
Map of Downtown streets that are subject to the Required Retail Frontage requirement.

--- page 109 ---
Att 5 - Applicable Policies 
 
GENERAL PLAN – LAND USE ELEMENT  
 
GOAL 1d: Concentrate major high-intensity commercial office and retail development in specific focal areas, as 
delineated on the City Image Plan, Figure UD-1. 
 
GOAL 1f: Provide a wide range of land uses, including retail, commercial services, office, industrial, parks, open 
space, and housing, to adequately meet the needs of the community. 
 
GOAL 1g: Attain development which occurs in an orderly fashion and which limits adverse environmental 
impacts to the community. 
LU 1.11: Commercial Focal Areas. Concentrate the most intense office and retail uses at locations 
delineated on the Land Use Plan. Discourage such uses outside the commercial nodes delineated on the  
Land Use Plan. 
LU 1.15: Mixed Use. Encourage developments which mix commercial retail and office uses with residential 
uses at locations and intensities/densities as delineated on the Land Use Plan and Building Intensity Plan. 
 
GOAL 2a: Promote economic vitality which provides jobs for existing and future residents and maintains the 
City's ability to finance public improvements and human services. 
 
GOAL 2c: Promote an intensity of commercial activity that enhances the business climate in the City to 
increase the level of business types which will benefit existing commercial uses.  
LU 2.4: Downtown Plan. Establish downtown San Mateo as the social, cultural, and economic center of the 
City with a wide range of office, medical, residential, entertainment, and retail uses at high intensities and 
densities while encouraging pedestrian activity and bicycle connectivity to adjacent neighborhoods.  
LU 2.10: Optimize Development Opportunities. Ensure that developments optimize the development 
potential of property in major commercial areas such as the Downtown Retail Core and along South El 
Camino Real. 
LU 3.1: Downtown Plan. As the social, cultural and economic center of the City, the downtown shall 
maintain a wide range of office, medical, residential, entertainment, and retail uses at high intensities and 
densities. 
 
3. DOWNTOWN.  
The goals, policies, and objectives for downtown San Mateo are located in the Downtown Plan. A general 
discussion of the downtown also occurs in Section 3 of this Land Use Element.  
Provisions of the voter-approved Measure H, Measure P, and Measure Y which reduced building heights, floor 
area ratios and residential densities, were also incorporated, including the provisions following below (the 
Measure H, P and Y provisions are in italics).  
a. A Specific Plan for the Downtown was adopted by the City Council in July 1985, and amended in 1993, 
consistent with the provisions of Measure H as adopted by the voters in November 1991. This Specific Plan 
also constituted an amendment to the previous General Plan.  
 
GENERAL PLAN – HOUSING ELEMENT 
H 2.12: Mixed Use. Continue the policy of encouraging residential uses in existing commercial areas, or in 
locating adjacent or near transit nodes, where the residences can be buffered from noise and safety 
concerns and can provide adequate on-site parking and usable open space. Provide floor area and/or 
height bonuses for residential development in selected areas of the City.

--- page 110 ---
DOWNTOWN PLAN 
 
GOALS 
 
ONE Enhance Downtown’s Role as the City Center and Maintain Its Unique Sense of Place Downtown San 
Mateo possesses a traditional downtown image, including an informal, cozy atmosphere. Key landmarks and 
landscaping in the form of street trees, San Mateo Creek and Central Park contribute to downtown’s unique 
character. New development should complement this character, while at the same time bringing 
contemporary elements that revitalize and energize the downtown.  
 
TWO Enhance the Vitality and Activity of Downtown by Incorporating an Overall Good Mix and Diversity of 
Uses Maintain and improve on the wide range of uses available downtown including retail and service 
establishments, entertainment uses, such as the Downtown Century Theater, residential uses and unique 
facilities, such as Central Park. Facilitate a wide mix of retail stores, service uses such as restaurants, and 
housing uses. 
 
THREE Enhance the Downtown’s Pedestrian Environment and Enhance the Safety and Attractiveness of 
Downtown. Allow for outdoor uses, such as cafes and sitting areas, to promote the pedestrian activity and 
multiple destination trips to the downtown. Strengthen the links between Central Park and downtown, and 
between the downtown and surrounding residential areas. 
 
POLICIES 
I.1 Downtown Core High Density/Intensity Development. Encourage the development of mixed-use high 
density residential projects and high intensity commercial projects within the Downtown Retail Core. 
 
II.1 Downtown Core Shopping Area. Preserve the downtown’s core shopping area between 1st and 5th 
Avenues from El Camino Real to the railroad.  
 
II.2 Required Retail Frontage. Require the provision of ground floor retail uses with windows on properties 
located on the primary shopping streets as identified in the Required Retail Frontage Zone Map (see map at 
the end of this chapter). In addition to traditional retailing activities, permit entertainment and cultural uses, 
and allow fast food establishments in limited instances. 
 
II.8 Office Development. Encourage the establishment of offices within the Downtown Retail Core and 
surrounding commercially designated areas. 
 
II.9 Housing in the Retail Core. Provide housing for new households that will utilize downtown businesses and 
is within proximity to the transit station to reduce vehicle trips and vehicle ownership. 
 
II.10 Mixed Use Commercial-Residential. Facilitate housing production by allowing multi-family dwellings as 
part of mixed use developments in all downtown commercial and office land use categories, except areas 
designated service commercial and parks/open space in the General Plan. 
 
IV.2 Store Fronts in the Retail Core. Maintain the traditional store front environment of the Downtown Retail 
Core area by requiring new buildings to be constructed to the street property line. In the retail core area, 
require ground floor building walls to be dominated by windows and pedestrian entrances

--- page 111 ---
IV.3 Design Guidelines. Evaluate the Downtown Design Guidelines to ensure that it:  
(1) Emphasizes the public realm - streets and sidewalks and public spaces in building design, scale, detail, 
and pattern of new developments;  
(2) Encourages building design to be compatible with the historic and architectural features common to 
many buildings in the Downtown;  
(3) Encourages a compatibility of diverse building styles; and  
(4) Encourages building details, surfaces, textures and materials that are interesting for the pedestrian. 
 
IV.6 Downtown Design Guidelines/Downtown Historic District Design Guidelines. Revise the Downtown and 
Historic District Design Guidelines to give consideration to new development within a historic preservation 
context, thereby providing a balance between preserving a unique community asset (in the form of a historic 
district with intact distinct historic and contributor structures) and providing for new development and 
improvements within the downtown area.

--- page 112 ---
IMPLEMENT A NEW FINANCING MECHANISM FOR SUPPORT SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION
DOWNTOWN PARKING. INITIATIVES. In order to improve pedestrian, bicycle,
The Central Parking and Improvement District (CPID) was | shuttle, and transit access implement Downtown Area
created by the City in 1954 as a means of financing land Plan policies to reduce vehicle trips and encourage transit
acquisition and construction of downtown public parking use and promote bicycle and pedestrian accessibility.
facilities. The CPID includes on-street parking, surface

lots and five (5) parking structures. The bonds issued to Additionally, the Downtown Area Plan includes vehicle trip
fund these downtown parking facilities have been retired, reduction, bicycle and pedestrian accessibility policies.

and the City is presently examining methods to fund These policies will be employed on a case by case basis
additional downtown parking. as development is reviewed, with the goal of reducing
vehicle trips and promoting alternative means of mobility.

Funding of additional public parking in downtown should S BE
consider the following principles: =| al ie

a. Property owners should participate in the funding of
future parking expansion through assessments or
other appropriate methods.

b. Parking in-lieu fees when combined with
assessments and other parking revenues should
be maintained at a level to provide the full cost of
constructing a new parking space.

F Outdoor Seating,

Mountain View

SUPPORT THE DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO

ASSOCIATION IN CREATION OF A PROPERTY

BASED IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT FOR DOWNTOWN

IMPROVEMENTS AND MAINTENANCE.

As a way to provide funding for additional parking

facilities, the Downtown San Mateo Association (DSMA)

is currently exploring the formation of a Property Based

Improvement District (PBID) as well as other funding

options, including options with contributions by property

owners and/or tenants. The City should continue to
support these efforts in an attempt to address funding
issues related to the provision of additional downtown

parking facilities. at on
Outdoor
Outdoor Seating
Seating Hayward
Hayward

20 CITY OF SAN MATEO DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN


--- page 113 ---
Downtown Retail Core

Background

The Downtown Retail Core extends from Sth Avenue to
2nd Avenue between El Camino Real and the Railroad.
3rd Avenue, 4th Avenue and B Street are the primary retail
streets (see map at end of this chapter). The two vacant
former gas station sites at 3rd Avenue/E! Camino Real
present opportunities and challenges at this gateway to
the downtown. Mills Health Center, the Downtown Century
Cinema, and the Downtown Transit Center (see next sub-
area discussion) are also included in this sub-area.

Future Conditions

Downtown Plan policies continue to support the retail
core shopping area by requiring retail uses along 2nd, 3rd
and 4th Avenues, San Mateo Drive, Ellsworth Avenue,
and B Street. This will require a good mix of ground

floor retail uses that will contribute to foster retail vitality
and downtown's pedestrian oriented environment. New
priorities for the retail core include:

a. Provide housing for new households that will utilize
downtown businesses and is within proximity to the
transit station to reduce vehicle trips and vehicle
ownership. In order to implement this policy, the City
should allow flexibility in architectural style to facilitate
use of nontraditional housing designs, such as loft
spaces, and allow flexibility in design where more
modem forms relate to existing buildings within an
historic environment.

b. Examine the feasibility of reducing lanes on 4th
Avenue down to 3 lanes to provide pedestrian
enhancements.

c. Examine the potential for providing a public plaza in
the retail core. The City has commissioned ERA to
examine a public plaza at the northwest comer of
3rd Avenue and San Mateo Drive in conjunction with
a mixed use development at 2nd Avenue and San
Mateo Drive.

Continue to seek additional sites for parking and
actively explore alternative methods to manage
existing parking inventory. Parking inventory
management may include experimenting with lang
term/overnight reserved parking for premium fees,
use of technological advancements, encouraging
short tarm parking turn over, and other methods as
they become available.

Provide an entry feature at the entryways to
downtown in the vicinity of the 3rd Avenue/El Camino
Real intersection, 4th Avenue/El Camino Real
intersection, B Street/Sth Avenue intersection, and B
Street/1st Avenue intersection.

Improve pedestrian linkages to Central Park and
other plazas, and provide additional widened
sidewalks where adequate parking and circulation
can be maintained.

Focus on 5th Avenue/San Mateo Drive and
opportunities to directly tie Downtown to Central
Park, including physically and visually open up to
intersection at Sth/San Mateo Drive.

Look at development opportunities on 5th Avenue
and where public benefits may be used to help fund
linkages to and/or improvements in Central Park.


--- page 114 ---
North B Street/Tilton Avenue

Background

Uses north of Baldwin and west of Ellsworth include small
scale medical offices along San Mateo Drive, the Peninsula
Regent (200+ unit senior citizen project), the Mills Square
mixed-use high rise office/residential project and single
family homes are located on Tilton Terrace.

Along B Street there is a mix of uses including those
continued from the retail core as well as neighborhood
commercial uses that serve nearby residential areas.
Recent renovation and establishment of new uses, such as
Cappelini's restaurant, has been increasing in this area.

Future Conditions

Land use designations in the area will support existing
uses, including the neighborhood commercial uses along B
Street. The emphasis for the North B Street/Tilton Avenue
policies include:

a. Enhance North B Street area and designate it as
a unique district serving the nearby neighborhood
population. Encourage retail/restaurant uses to locate
on ground floors and office/service uses to locate in
upper level spaces, while maintaining the existing
character of this district. To further develop this unique
district, establish relationships with existing bilingual
services in the community and merchants.

b. Encourage and facilitate development of large, vacant,
underutilized parcels such as the former Blue and
White Laundry site on North B Street. Development
of underutilized parcels with significant development
which attempts to maximize use of the sites will nat
only have direct economic impacts generated by the
projects themselves, but also contribute to the overall
downtown shopping environment.

CITY OF SAN MATEO DOWNTOWN AREAPLAN 23


--- page 115 ---
x ‘i ; erie ; tp ==} : im = : i= :
] oa (eee 1 ‘8 =" = =

| CITY OF SAN MATEO
| February 2009

DOWNTOWN
SUB-AREAS

| FIGURE 2

DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN

ATK stad oN 20290. 690.890
ale ee
aa & cee! (FS ESIEUTI : r=] \saxcean
rT = ai AVE ua CT
= i i = GATEWAY = a
AVE a ee SRD AVE @ = E> 0
TW | at fen ae gD Eel == pf) ee = oy
= al “4 iB at i =e 2 Ie ] U : =
=| LEGEND
T = E RAILROAD DOWNTOWN SUB-AREAS:
ir POST OFFICE [=] CENTRAL CLAREMONT
—It \— TRAIN STATION [=]: DOWNTOWN RETAIL
+ | B : — LIBRARIES CORE
SET a : SAN MATEO CREEK ME GATEWAY
a Li 1 | (SUBSURFACE) NORTH B
TOUT. =—- 4 SAN MATEO CREEK TILTON AVENUE
c = ar | seeesitaaiaehaaea edebeinininae CUT ie HG): SOUTH CLAREMONT
Sl Seki | | | = =; | E ih =| | = al =| PROPERTY BOUNDARY HED WEST EL CAMINO
a) ga 4 me _—— == Mmm DOWNTOWNPLAN) = [J CENTRAL PARK

STUDY AREA



--- page 116 ---
RETAIL CORE
FIGURE 3

bs

=| DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN

CITY OF SAN MATEO
February 2009

ST MATTHEWS AVE

HLaoOMSs114
fi

aa

» as

ee

WN
a § se
SS 8
ty:

NH

Zz

CoN

paces

NSN
N

mami: bec th PAG

ie Y

Pett LOPLI ta

'

SAN

E 4TH AVE il

rc) Downtown Cinema

Tot sRailroad «= Train Station Parks/Downtown Plaza

Medium Density Multi-Family
@B@B Downtown Plan Study Area

F Neighborhood Commercial’
Downtown Retail Core s 4 ; : ,
@@@ vic-Biock Pedestrian Connections ispesmeniniis:: sinauiciiians Seeammaidiaaae:
Downtown Retail Core Support Public Facility- Library
FE] Sc Parking Facility
Executive Office

Executive Office’ ; .
——— = Required Retail Frontage High Density Multi-Family Single Family
S88 Uniform Building Line

EP Downtown Retail Core Sub-Area Service Commercial

High Density Multi-Family Transportation Comidor
EZ Historic District / Design Guidlelines Low Density Multi-Family



--- page 117 ---
city

DOWNTOWN
LAND USE PLAN
FIGURE 10

DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN

CITY OF SAN MATEO

February 2009

O_ 200 400 600 800
Feet

_ Legend
HHE naitroad 8 train station
ame Required Retail Frontage
eeee 1/4 -1/2 MILE Radius from Station
Mima Downtown Plan Study Area
(—) Property Boundary

LAND USE
Downtown Retail Core

Downtown Retail Core Support

PHOn es

Executive Ojfice

Executive Office’ High Density
= Multi-Family

ao High Density Multi-Family
Low Density Multi-Family
Manufacturing

Medium Density Multi-Family

Wa ONIN aS

Neighborhood Commercial

Neigh. Gomm/ Medium-High Density
Multi-Family

Parks/ Open Space

Public Facility

Regional/Community Commercial
Regional‘Community Commercial!
High Density Multi-Family

Service Commercial

Single Family

ee le

Transportation Corridor

REQUIRED RETAIL

CTE E eee ee i

1S INVUS N

February 2009

f —o
RSET | ell & FRONTAGE ZONES
= =o | 0. — "fie —— | FIGURE 11
smartest — aS i | ! re
a ee CYPRESS DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN
f L
1 | lr CITY OF SAN MATEO

SHH RAILROAD
USPS POST OFFICE
TRAIN STATION
oe @ LIBRARIES

easitas SAN MATEO CREEK (SUBSURFACE)
—— _SAN MATEO CREEK (SURFACE)

vues
a
Hy

MISSION

Tamas

CIR

ONVULSIdVI ZT
Teo

om PARKS

PROPERTY BOUNDARY
3 mmm = DOWNTOWN PLAN STUDY AREA
qm = REQUIRED RETAIL FRONTAGE



--- page 118 ---
‘omen,

%

-
.

— 2? cen

SAN MATEO CREEK

LEGEND

@OE@ Wit Block Pedestrian Connections

SAN MATEO CREEK

PROPERTY BOUNDARY

UG

DOWNTOWN
URBAN DESIGN

PLAN
FIGURE 12

DOWNTOWN AREA PLAN

CITY OF SAN MATEO

LOH ;

ES

Natrual Landscaping to Define
Downtown Boundaries

Street Trees to Unite the Areas
East of the Railroad Tracks
Application of Downtown

Gore Design Policies
Application of Historic!
Architectural Design Policies
Screening of Commercial
Areas East of RR Tracks

Application of Uniform
Building Line



--- page 119 ---
SUMMARY DATA SHEET
*Based on requirements in effect as of June 30, 2022.
NAME: 31 – 57 S. B Street, 
Zoning Reclassification
PA: 2022-002
ADDRESS: 31 – 57 South B Street
LAND AREA: 16,413 sf (0.37 ac)
ZONING: 
Current Zoning: C1-2/R5 
Proposed Zoning: CBD
APN: 034-154-030
Requirements for C1-2/R5 
Zoning District
Requirements for CBD Zoning 
District
FLOOR AREA:
MAXIMUM ALLOWED:
MAXIMUM ALLOWED:
  Non-residential only project:
32,826 sq ft
49,239 sf
  Project with Residential:
49,230 sq ft
49,239 sf
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR):
Project with only Non-
Residential Uses: Max. 2.0 FAR
Project with Residential Use: 
Max. 3.0 FAR
Project with/without Residential 
Use: Max. 3.0 FAR
BLDG. HEIGHT:
55 feet
Same (see left column).
STORIES: 
Subject to building height limit 
of 55 ft
Same (see left column).
SETBACKS:
MINIMUM REQUIRED:
MINIMUM REQUIRED:
  Front:
0
0 (also, refer to Building Line and 
Setback section below.)
  Left Side:
0
0 (also, refer to Building Line and 
Setback section below.)
  Right Side:
0
0 (also, refer to Building Line and 
Setback section below.)
  Rear:
0
0 (also, refer to Building Line and 
Setback section below.)
BUILDING LINE AND SETBACK:
Option not available.
South B Street and First Avenue 
sides: Up to 25% of building line 
may be set back from property line 
to provide for ground floor open 
space.
Alley side: Option not available.
STREET WALL:
45 degree from midpoint of 
public right-of-way
Same (see left column).
NOTES: 
The above are the key development requirements for each district; but fully inclusive of all potential 
requirements which may vary depending upon the specifics of the proposed project.

--- page 120 ---
31-57 South B Street
Zoning Reclassification
Zoning Reclassification
(PA-2022-002)
Planning Commission
July 26, 2022
Julia Klein, Principal Planner
Community Development Department

--- page 121 ---
2
Project Site
Caltrain rail 
corridor
Downtown Caltrain Station

--- page 122 ---
PROJECT SITE
• 1 parcel, bounded by:
• South B Street
• Commercial building
• Caltrain Station
• First Ave
• 0.37 acre
• General Plan Land Use – 
Downtown Retail Core
• Zoning – C1-2/R5
3
Project Site
Project Site
Land Use Map                                         Zoning Map

--- page 123 ---
SURROUNDING USES
4
Project site
North
South
West
East

--- page 124 ---
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
• General Plan 
oLand Use designation  - Downtown Retail Core
• Downtown Area Plan 
oDowntown Retail Core subarea
oProximity to Downtown Historic District
• Current Zoning designation
oC1-2/R5 (Neighborhood Commercial/Residential Overlay)
• Proposed Zoning Reclassification
oProperty owner applied for change to CBD (Central Business District)
5

--- page 125 ---
6
Project Site
Project Site
Project Site
General Plan Land Use Map
          Downtown Area Plan 
                       Zoning Map

--- page 126 ---
CODE AND POLICY REVIEW
7
• C1-2/R5 zoning is intended to 
create/maintain a 
neighborhood shopping area.
• CBD zoning designation 
established to implement 
General Plan and Downtown 
Plan goals and policies to 
encourage and foster a 
thriving retail core area.
• General Plan – vision for city & 
designated land uses.
• Implementation through tools: plans, 
codes, guidelines and standards.
• General Plan and Downtown Plan include 
goals and policies for the retail core area.
• Project Site:
• Land use designation = “Downtown 
Retail Core”; 
• Located in “Downtown Retail Core” 
subarea of Downtown Area Plan.

--- page 127 ---
CODE AND POLICY REVIEW
8
• C1-2/R5 vs. CBD zoning - key differences in development standards:  
• Floor Area Ratio (under CDB max. is 3.0 FAR), 
• Ground floor open space (required under CBD), 
• Building line and setbacks for open space (allowed for under CBD), 
• Required Retail Frontage requirement, etc.
• While Required Retail Frontage requirement would be required regardless of 
zoning designation, the CBD chapter has specific code provisions regulating 
uses in the RRF area.
• Proposed zoning reclassification would enable the site’s zoning designation to 
align with its General Plan land use designation of Downtown Retail Core.

--- page 128 ---
Pre-Application & Public Comments
9
• Planning Commission study session (5/10/2022)
• Public comment letters – none to date
Next Step
• City Council public hearing to introduce the ordinance for zoning 
reclassification.

--- page 129 ---
RECOMMENDATION
Recommend to the City Council adoption of an Ordinance to 
approve a Zoning Reclassification for the property at 31-57 
South B Street from C1-2/R5 to CBD and determine the 
project qualifies for a Categorical Exemption from further 
environmental review under the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA).
10

--- page 130 ---
Thank You
Julia Klein, Principal Planner
Community Development Department
jklein@cityofsanmateo.org | (650) 522-7216
11

--- page 131 ---
1ST & B – Planning Commission Hearing                                                            
July 26, 2022
31-57 S B STREET REZONE
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO
HARVEST PROPERTIES

--- page 132 ---
About Harvest Properties
LOCALLY-BASED & COMMUNITY 
FOCUSED REAL ESTATE DEVELOPER
• Based in Oakland
• Founded in 2003
• Decades of experience owning and 
operating Bay Area real estate with a 
thoughtful and proactive approach to 
supporting the local community
• Recently entitled 290 entry level 
homes, with 10% dedicated to low-
income buyers, across 15 acres in San 
Mateo, replacing 225,000 sf of non-
transit served office space
• Members of our team, including at the 
Partner level, are residents of San Mateo 
and are passionate about our 
commitment to improving the 
Downtown for all community members
• Active in the San Mateo market since 2007
• Harvest’s Partner is 
headquartered in San Mateo and 
has owned apartment buildings 
on the Peninsula since the 1960s

--- page 133 ---
Site/Zoning Overview
Address:
31-57 S B Street
Parcel Size:
16,413 SF | 0.37 acres
Existing Zoning:
C1-2/R5 - Neighborhood 
Commercial
DT Area Plan 
Designation:
Downtown Retail Core
C1-2/R5 –
Permitted Uses
Retail (serving the immediate 
neighborhood), Office & 
Residential
FAR
2.0 / 3.0 with residential
Proposed 
Zoning:
CBD – Commercial Business 
District
CBD– Permitted 
Uses
Retail (retail core shopping area), 
Office, & Residential
FAR
3.0

--- page 134 ---
Downtown Area Plan: Zoning Intent
Downtown Area Plan-figure 2
•
The 1st & B Property is located in the Downtown Retail Core Sub-Area per the 
Downtown Area Plan adopted in 2009.  
•
Within the Downtown Area Plan, the C-1 neighborhood commercial zoning 
designation were intended to be limited in the North B Tilton Avenue Sub-Area 
and not in the Downtown Retail Core Sub-Area where the 1st & B property is 
located. 
•
Neighborhood Commercial is defined by the General Plan as “shopping centers 
serving the immediate neighborhood and including off-street parking, or, 
clusters of street facing storefronts. These areas often include uses such as 
supermarkets, bakeries, drugstores, restaurants, delicatessens, barber shops, hair 
salons, laundromats, hardware stores, dry cleaners, small offices and other 
personal services
•
The Downtown Area Plan envisions the Retail Core area to “continue to support 
the retail core shopping area [i.e., not neighborhood commercial]. . . This will 
require a good mix of ground floor retail uses that will contribute to foster retail 
vitality . . .”  The Plan includes the policy to “encourage the establishment of 
offices with the Downtown Retail Core and commercially designated areas” 
(Policy II.8.)  This intent matches with the General Plan’s Building Intensity Zone.
•
Rezoning the Property CBD would also be consistent with the zoning of 
surrounding properties.  All properties with the Downtown Retail Core 
designation and 3.0 FAR designation are zoned CBD on the south side of First 
Avenue
General Plan Map LU-5

--- page 135 ---
Downtown Area Plan: Zoning Intent (Continued)
Downtown Area Plan-figure 11 (Retail Frontage Zone)
•
This side of the block is the only block with a C1-2/R5 designation that is in the 
Required Retail Frontage Zone.  All other properties within the Required Retail 
Frontage Zone have a Downtown Retail Core designation and are zoned CBD
•
The Required Retail Frontage Zone ordinance is located within the CBD District 
regulations and no other zoning district. This is strong evidence that all 
properties within the Required Retail Frontage Zone were intended to be zoned 
CBD.
.
•
The intent of the Downtown Area Plan appears to be to provide the 1st & B 
property the same development rights as other properties located immediately to 
its south and west that are in the same Sub-Area and have the same General Plan, 
Downtown Area Plan, FAR designations, and are in the Required Retail Frontage.
•
Thus, it appears that the current neighborhood commercial zoning designation on 
the property doesn’t align with the intent of the Downtown Area Plan.
Existing Zoning Map

--- page 136 ---
Why CBD Zoning?
CBD zoning provides the most flexibility and density at 
3.0 FAR for commercial and/or residential
CBD does not exclude any permitted use with-in C-1/R 
Neighborhood Commercial
CBD zoning is in-line with the 2009 Downtown Area 
Plan intent for this site
CBD zoning is most in-line with all three alternatives for 
the 2040 General Plan which each result in net new 
jobs and housing
Without CBD zoning, the site risks the economic 
viability of the project:
Partnership purchased the site based on CBD 
zoning per discussions with former City Staff
Mixed-use residential and retail only does not 
meet market returns prohibiting the ability to 
place financing and raise equity

--- page 137 ---
Why Not Commercial, Retail, & Residential
• The ownership at 1st & B Street collectively is one of the largest residential developers on the 
peninsula
• 1st & B does not lend itself to residential only due to financial feasibility, but the partnership is 
very focused on providing housing across the peninsula and specifically San Mateo
• 290-units of entry level housing within San Mateo while removing 225k SF of office
• 60-unit affordable housing public/private partnership within DTSM
Mixed-Use Inefficiencies/Challenges:
• Small Site Footprint: Incorporating three uses into a small site limits functionality and viability due 
to back of house requirements, residential services, and infrastructure taking up too much space
• Sites that have incorporated these uses are 300-400% larger footprints
• 1st & B – 0.37 Acres
• Block 21 – 1.5 Acres
• Talbots – 1.15 Acres
• Inadequate Resident/Tenant Experience: The mix of uses are forced and results in a loss or 
compromised set of amenities for residents and tenants.

--- page 138 ---
Benefits of CBD Zoning
•
Create a Design and Uses Consistency Within the B Street Corridor as the 
majority of surrounding buildings are zoned CBD
•
Increase in Day-Time Population to Support Local Businesses
•
Focus Mixed-Use Density Along Transit to mitigate traffic as well as a 
welcoming experience from the Caltrain Station
•
Enhanced Public Realm Space to Activate B Street without scale of the 
project, it would not be feasible to support the public improvements
•
Increased Impact Fees and Future Revenues For the City via increased 
potential density on-site

--- page 139 ---
DONUT 
DELITE
INCREASE DAY-TIME 
POPULATION TO SUPPORT 
LOCAL BUSINESSES
IN LINE WITH DT SPECIFIC 
PLAN & FUTURE GENERAL 
PLAN’S GOALS AND 
INITIATIVES
FROM MAJOR TRANSIT
AND HIGLY WALKABLE 
(REDUCING TRAFFIC)
0*
miles
* Approximately
Summary of CBD Zoning at 1st & B  
INCREASED IMPACT FEES 
AND FUTURE CITY 
REVENUES
CBD PROVIDES MOST 
CONSISTENT AND 
FLEXIBLE ZONING FOR 
DEVELOPMENT
EHANCED RETAIL, 
PEDESTRIAN AND PUBLIC 
REALM EXPERIENCE

--- page 140 ---
DONUT DELITE
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND 
CONSIDERATION! 
C o n t a c t  u s  a t  p o c o n n e l l @ h a r v e s t p r o p e r t i e s . c o m

--- page 141 ---
diy

HARVEST

PROPERTIES

Appendix



--- page 142 ---
Onsite Units vs. Purpose Built Residential
Utilizing affordable housing funding sources in a purpose-built residential building provides the ability 
to leverage  the City funds by 80-90%, equating to ~4x the unit production vs. being built onsite, 
similar to current private/private partnerships within the City such as Kiku Crossing and Talbots.
Onsite Units
Purpose Built (Offsite)
•
Less Potential Units
•
Maximize Potential Units
•
No Federal or State Financing
•
Leverage Affordable Housing 
Funding Sources
•
Compromised Floor Plates 
Within Mixed-Use Project
•
Residential Community
•
Limited residential amenities
•
Residential Amenities & 
Services
Hypothetical Affordable Housing Project
# Units
60
Potential Shortfall / City Contribution
$5,500,000
Per Unit Contribution
$92,000
Total Costs
$850,000
Leverage of City Funds
89%
Donut Delite Commercial Linkage Fee
$950,000
Potential Units When Fee Applied to 
Residential Project
10.3 Units
DD # Units Developer Required Onsite
2.5 Units
Leveraging Commercial Linkage Fee - Example

--- page 143 ---
Purpose Built Residential - Benefits
Purpose Built The benefit of building affordable units off 
site at a stand-alone residential project vs. on site in a 
commercial building is the ability to include amenities 
designed specifically with the needs and convenience of 
the residents in mind such as, 
o
Welcoming entrance and lobby area for privacy 
and comfort
o
Residential community to build connections
o
Community Room/Clubhouse
o
Fitness Center
o
Dedicated outdoor amenity areas such as:
o
Playgrounds
o
Community gardens
o
Outdoor seating & gathering areas 
o
Package Rooms & Storage Space
Sculptural play area with seating area