Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
Visit Flock
Del City OK PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Wed Sep 09 2026

Overview

Del City OK PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Del City OK PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Del City OK PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary
Camera Alert Activity

Camera alerts by source and topic over the last 30 days.

93 alerts
NCIC - Stolen Plate
40
NCIC - Gang or Suspected Terrorist
31
NCIC - Stolen Vehicle
11
NCIC - Protection Order
5
NCIC - Sex Offender
4
NCIC - Extreme Risk Protection Order
1
NCIC - Warrants
1

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

10

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

206,494

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

126

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCIC, NCMEC Amber Alert

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

823
Top Offense Types

Offense Types used for LPR searches in the last 30 days.

Motor Vehicle Theft/Stolen
Stolen Property Offenses
Traffic Infraction
Larceny/Theft Offenses
Alcohol Offenses (Non-DUI)
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Del City OK PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harrassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
SOC 2 Type II

Independently audited controls covering security, availability, and confidentiality.

ISO 27001

Information security management aligned with international standards.

Adherence to Key Privacy Principles

Built to focus on data minimization, purpose limitation, and transparency.

Myth vs. Fact
Myth

Flock has been hacked.

Fact

Flock's cloud environment has never been breached. Flock invests in a strong security posture, including adhering to NDAA, SOC2 (Type II), ISO 27001, ISO 27018 FedRAMP 20x, and Higher Education Community Vendor Assessment Tool (HECVAT) compliance. Additional security precautions include Role-Based Access Controls, data encrypted at-rest and in transit, required Multi-Factor Authentication, and regular penetration testing.

Myth

Flock sells and/or shares customer data.

Fact

Your community owns 100% of your data and it will never be sold. Only your agency decides who to share your data with, not Flock. Flock Safety does not publicly release agency search data. Flock does not operate or support any public-facing searchable database of law enforcement lookups, and we do not provide license plate search histories to websites or third parties without the agency's knowledge and authorization. Other agencies who you share footage with have been responding to FOIA requests and sharing this search data.

Myth

My data is fed into a national database.

Fact

Each agency controls access to its own data. Agencies may choose to share information through a broader network, but nothing is shared automatically. Participation is opt-in, governed by defined agreements, and limited to lawful investigative purposes.

Myth

Flock cameras use facial recognition.

Fact

Flock cameras do not use facial recognition technology. Searches are based on vehicle characteristics, and not identity. Flock cannot recognize, identify, or track individuals. It is purpose built for specific public safety investigations, not to monitor people.

Provided by Flock Safety