source: packet.pdf
sha256: d0726e0ecd7472a211f202f680bcf3dde75c159ad97ac16324828caddfa7b7d2
pages: 48
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
SAN MATEO – FOSTER CITY
PUBLIC FINANCING AUTHORITY
December 10, 2020
6:00 PM 
MEMBERS 
Eric Rodriguez, San Mateo Council, Chair
Sam Hindi, Foster City Council, Vice Chair
Drew Corbett, City Manager, San Mateo
Dante Hall, Interim City Manager, Foster City
REVISED – SPECIAL MEETING AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS – 
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN‐PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: SMFC­PFA Meeting 12/10/20
To join via telephone: (408) 638­0968
Conference ID: 852 1282 9979    Passcode: 487924
ROLL CALL
PUBLIC COMMENT 
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to staff a “Request to Speak” form. State law
prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on the agenda. Your comments may be referred to staff for further
review.
NEW BUSINESS
1.
Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act Loan Agreements to Finance Collection Capital Costs –
Approval
Adopt a Resolution to approve a Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) loan to provide
financing for capital improvements to San Mateo's collection wastewater facilities (Collection WIFIA Loan),
authorize the issuance and delivery of a revenue bond (Collection WIFIA Bond), and approve related
documents and actions.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission request for scheduling future items.
‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website 72 hours before each Commission Meeting and can be viewed on
the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org. Any supplemental material distributed after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply):
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: rlee@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the ZOOM meeting. All attendees are
muted by default. To speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
1 of 48

--- page 2 ---
During the meeting by telephone: (408) 638‐0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide
your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to
participate in this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522‐7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours
prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 48

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS 
File ID: 20-3907
TO:
San Mateo - Foster City Public Financing Authority
FROM:
Rich Lee, Finance Director
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
December 10, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act Loan Agreements to Finance Collection Capital Costs – Approval 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve a Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) loan to provide financing for 
capital improvements to San Mateo's collection wastewater facilities (Collection WIFIA Loan), authorize the issuance and 
delivery of a revenue bond (Collection WIFIA Bond), and approve related documents and actions.
BACKGROUND:
In 2009, the Regional Water Quality Control Board issued a Cease and Desist Order requiring the City of San Mateo (City), 
the Town of Hillsborough and the Crystal Springs County Sanitation District to take specific actions to eliminate the 
occurrence of sanitary sewer overflows. In order to comply with the 2009 Cease and Desist Order, the City developed a 
preliminary 10-year Integrated Wastewater Master Plan (the “Clean Water Program”) calling for a major upgrade to the 
waste water treatment plant (WWTP) owned jointly by the City and the Estero Municipal Improvement District (District), 
and improvements to the City’s collection system. Current estimated costs for all improvements are approximately $1 
billion. The City’s share is $854 million, of which $340.6 million is for collection and $513.9 million is for the WWTP. The 
$513.9 million includes the shares attributable to Hillsborough ($30.8 million), the Crystal Springs County Sanitation 
District ($13.6 million) and the County of San Mateo ($760,000) (collectively, the “Regional Customers”). The Regional 
Customers will repay the City over time for their respective shares via an annual capacity charge. 
The City will require financing to complete these improvements. The City and the District established the Authority in 2016 
to facilitate the financing of both agencies’ capital contributions to the WWTP upgrade project. The Authority may be used 
by either member to facilitate any capital financing. The following table shows estimated Clean Water Program sources 
and uses of funds. 
3 of 48

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
WIFIA LOANS
The City and the District have secured WWTP WIFIA Loans in an aggregate amount not to exceed $277.2 million under the 
WIFIA loan program administered by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for the WWTP upgrade 
costs. The City’s maximum loan authorization under this program for the WWTP is $210,339,360. The District’s maximum 
loan authorization is $66,860,640. These loans closed on November 5, 2020, and the loan rate was locked in at a 
guaranteed 1.32% based on U.S. Treasury rates at the time. 
The City was invited by the EPA to submit an application for collection system capital costs and has been tentatively 
approved for a $85,140,000 Collection WIFIA Loan. Final EPA approval will take place concurrently with the City’s 
Collection WIFIA Loan approval process. This loan is expected to close December 17, 2020. The WIFIA term sheet, which 
describes key business aspects of the Collection WIFIA Loan, is attached to this report. 
REQUIRED APPROVALS 
The resolution before the Board today consents to the Authority entering into a Collection WIFIA Loan Agreement with the 
EPA in the maximum amount of $85,140,000 and selling a bond to the EPA evidencing the Authority’s repayment 
obligation under the loan agreement, approves a WIFIA term sheet that describes key business aspects of the Collection 
WIFIA Loan, and approves a financing agreement which documents a loan from the Authority to the City which loan will be 
pledged to the EPA and which will provide the Authority a source of revenue to repay its loan from the EPA. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Authority is a conduit financing authority. The Collection WIFIA Loan is secured with a financing agreement between 
the Authority and the City. Debt service on the financing agreement will mirror debt service on the Collection WIFIA Loan 
which it secures. The Authority will incur expenses to secure this source of financing. The City will pay all of these 
expenses. The Authority will not incur unreimbursed expenses or debt service in connection with the Collection WIFIA 
Loan.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This loan agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
4 of 48

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Draft resolution
Att 2 - WIFIA Term Sheet
Att 3 - Financing Agreement between City and Authority
STAFF CONTACT
Rich Lee, Director, Finance
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
5 of 48

--- page 6 ---
SAN MATEO – FOSTER CITY PUBLIC FINANCING AUTHORITY
RESOLUTION NO. 2020-__
RESOLUTION OF THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE SAN MATEO-
FOSTER CITY PUBLIC FINANCING AUTHORITY APPROVING A WATER INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE AND 
INNOVATION ACT LOAN TO PROVIDE FINANCING FOR CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS TO WASTEWATER FACILITIES, 
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND DELIVERY OF A REVENUE BOND (WIFIA LOAN), AND APPROVING
RELATED FINANCING DOCUMENTS AND OFFICIAL ACTIONS
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (the “City”) and the Estero Municipal Improvement District (the 
“District,” and together with the City, the “Members”) previously entered into that certain Joint Powers 
Agreement Between the City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District for Operation of the 
City of San Mateo Wastewater Treatment Plant and Construction of Capital Improvements Under the Clean 
Water Program, dated April 17, 2017, as amended by an “Amendment to the Joint Powers Agreement Between 
the City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District for Operation of the City of San Mateo 
Wastewater Treatment Plant and Construction of Capital Improvements under the Clean Water Program” dated 
February 19, 2019 (as it may be further amended from time to time hereafter, the “Construction/Operation JPA 
Agreement”); and 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Construction/Operation JPA Agreement, the District and the City jointly own 
certain wastewater treatment, conveyance and disposal facilities from the point of entry of the influent sewage 
lines into the City of San Mateo Wastewater Treatment Plant (the “Treatment Plant”) to the effluent outfall 
point in the San Francisco Bay, including associated buildings that are used for treatment of wastewater to 
comply with regulatory requirements (referred to as the “Jointly Owned Facilities” in the 
Construction/Operation JPA Agreement); and
WHEREAS, the sanitary sewer collection and conveyance systems independently owned by the City and 
the District that deliver sewage to the Treatment Plant are not Jointly Owned Facilities and are not subject to 
the Construction/Operation JPA Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the Construction/Operation JPA Agreement provides that the City and the District may enter 
into an agreement to provide sewer services to areas outside of their respective service boundaries as long as 
such agreement does not cause the City or the District to exceed its “Purchased Capacity” (as defined in the 
Construction/Operation JPA Agreement). The City has entered into that certain Sanitary Sewage Agreement 
Between the Town of Hillsborough, City of San Mateo, Crystal Springs County Sanitation District, and the County 
of San Mateo, dated July 18, 1989 (as it may be amended from time to time, the “Additional Capacity Use 
Agreement”; the Town of Hillsborough, the Crystal Springs County Sanitation District, and the County of San 
Mateo, are referred to as the “Additional Capacity Users”); and
WHEREAS, in order to provide a mechanism by which (i) the improvement of the Jointly Owned Facilities 
could be jointly financed and each of the City and the District would be solely responsible for its share of the 
costs, (ii) each of the City and the District could finance the costs of its own collection and transmission system 
and (iii) each of the Additional Capacity Users that are members of the Authority (if any) could finance a share of 
the capital costs attributable to its use of the Jointly Owned Facilities and its own collection and transmissions 
6 of 48

--- page 7 ---
Resolution No. 2020-
Page 2 of 5
Capital Improvements to Wastewater Facilities - WIFIA Loan and Bond Authorization
system, the Members entered into a Joint Exercise of Powers Agreement on February 29, 2016, which was 
amended on April 24, 2020 (the “Joint Powers Agreement”), under which the San Mateo-Foster City Public 
Financing Authority (the “Authority”) has been organized as a joint powers authority which is a public entity 
separate and apart from the Members; and
WHEREAS, the City is undertaking capital improvements to its wastewater facilities in compliance with 
(i) Cease and Desist Order No. R2-2009-0020, (ii) the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (“NPDES”) 
permit for the Jointly Owned Facilities and (iii) the Integrated Wastewater Master Plan dated October 2014 
prepared by Carollo Engineers.  Such capital improvements include the repair, rehabilitation and replacement of 
wastewater infrastructure located in the City, including upgrades to two (2) existing lift stations, upgrades to one 
(1) existing pump station, construction of an underground flow equalization system, and improvements to 
portions of the collection system (the “Project”); and
WHEREAS, the City has asked the Authority to provide financing for the Project by entering into a loan 
(the “WIFIA Loan”) with the United States Environmental Protection Agency, acting by and through the 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (the “USEPA”) pursuant to the Water Infrastructure 
Finance and Innovation Act (“WIFIA”), § 5021 et seq. of Public Law 113-121 (as amended by Public Law 114-94, 
Public Law 114-322 and Public Law 115-270) (the “Act”), codified as 33 U.S.C. §§ 3901-3914; and  
WHEREAS, in order to evidence the WIFIA Loan, the Authority desires to authorize the issuance of its 
San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority 2020C Wastewater Revenue Bond (WIFIA Loan) (the “WIFIA 
Bond”), under the provisions of Article 4 (commencing with Section 6584) of Chapter 5 of Division 7 of Title 1 of 
the Government Code of the State of California (the “Bond Law”). The maximum principal amount of the WIFIA 
Bond shall not exceed $85,140,000 and interest shall accrue on the WIFIA Bond at the interest rates and be 
payable on the dates as provided therein and in the WIFIA Loan Agreement (defined below); and
WHEREAS, the USEPA has provided a description of the terms of the WIFIA Loan in the WIFIA Loan Term 
Sheet (the “WIFIA Term Sheet”) which constitutes (a) the approval of the USEPA of the application for credit 
assistance of the Authority received June 3, 2020 (the “Application”) and (b) the agreement of USEPA to provide 
financing for the Project in the form of the WIFIA Loan on terms and conditions acceptable to USEPA contained 
therein; and
WHEREAS the Authority and the City have caused a form of a Financing Agreement between the 
Authority and the City (the “Financing Agreement”) to be presented to this Governing Board; and
WHEREAS, there has been submitted to the Governing Board forms of the WIFIA Term Sheet and WIFIA 
Loan Agreement (defined below); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Government Code Section 5852.1, certain information relating to the WIFIA 
Bond is set forth in Exhibit A attached to this Resolution, and such information is hereby disclosed and made 
public; and
7 of 48

--- page 8 ---
Resolution No. 2020-
Page 3 of 5
Capital Improvements to Wastewater Facilities - WIFIA Loan and Bond Authorization
WHEREAS, the Governing Board wishes to take its action at this time authorizing execution and delivery 
of the Financing Agreement, the WIFIA Term Sheet, the WIFIA Loan Agreement and the issuance and delivery of 
the WIFIA Bond and approving related financing documents and official actions; and
WHEREAS, concurrently with the execution and delivery of the Financing Agreement, the Authority will 
issue the WIFIA Bond pursuant to the WIFIA Loan Agreement among the Authority, the USEPA and the City (the 
“WIFIA Loan Agreement”).
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Governing Board of the San Mateo-Foster City Public 
Financing Authority as follows:
Section 1. Findings of Benefit.  Pursuant to Section 6586 of the Bond Law, the Governing Board hereby 
finds that there are significant public benefits in assisting the City to finance the costs of the 
Project through the issuance of the WIFIA Bond.  Such benefits include, but are not limited 
to, demonstrable savings in effective interest rates, bond underwriting costs, and bond 
issuance costs.
Section 2. Authorization of Bonds.  The Governing Board hereby authorizes the issuance of the WIFIA 
Bond under the Bond Law for the purpose of providing financing for the costs of the Project, 
in the amount of not to exceed $85,140,000. The WIFIA Bond shall be issued under the WIFIA 
Loan Agreement which is approved pursuant to Section 3. 
Section 3.
Approval of Related Financing Agreement, WIFIA Term Sheet and WIFIA Loan Agreement.  
The Governing Board hereby approves each of the following agreements required for the 
issuance and sale of the WIFIA Bond and the financing of the Project, in substantially the 
forms on file with the Secretary together with any changes therein or additions thereto 
deemed advisable by the Treasurer-Auditor-Controller, whose execution thereof shall be 
conclusive evidence of the approval of any such changes or additions.  The Treasurer-
Auditor-Controller is hereby authorized and directed for and in the name and on behalf of 
the Authority to execute, and the Secretary is hereby authorized and directed to attest the 
final form of each such agreement:

Financing Agreement between the Authority and the City, which provides security for 
the obligations of the City in respect of the WIFIA Bond.

WIFIA Term Sheet provided by the USEPA, and signed by the Authority and the City, 
which describes the terms of the WIFIA Loan, the WIFIA Bond, the Financing 
Agreement and the WIFIA Loan Agreement.

WIFIA Loan Agreement among the USEPA, the Authority and the City, which provides 
for the terms of the WIFIA Loan and the WIFIA Bond.
8 of 48

--- page 9 ---
Resolution No. 2020-
Page 4 of 5
Capital Improvements to Wastewater Facilities - WIFIA Loan and Bond Authorization
Section 4.
Sale of Bonds.  The Governing Board hereby approves the negotiated sale and placement of 
the WIFIA Bond to the USEPA pursuant to the WIFIA Loan Agreement, so long as the true 
interest cost of the WIFIA Bond does not exceed 4.00%.
Section 5.
Official Actions.  The Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson, the Treasurer-Auditor-Controller, 
the Secretary, the General Counsel and all other officers of the Authority are each 
authorized and directed in the name and on behalf of the Authority to make any and all 
leases, assignments, certificates, requisitions, agreements, notices, consents, instruments of 
conveyance, warrants and other documents, and to take any actions, which they or any of 
them deem necessary or appropriate in order to consummate any of the transactions 
contemplated by the agreements and documents approved under this Resolution.  
Whenever in this Resolution any officer of the Authority is authorized to execute or 
countersign any document or take any action, such execution, countersigning or action may 
be taken on behalf of such officer by any person designated by such officer to act on his or 
her behalf if such officer is absent or unavailable.
Section 6.
Effective Date.  This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its passage and adoption.
PASSED and ADOPTED this ____day of _______________, 2020, by the following vote:
AYES:
NOES:
ABSENT:
ABSTAIN:
_______________________________
_______________________________
Chairperson
Secretary
9 of 48

--- page 10 ---
Resolution No. 2020-
Page 5 of 5
Capital Improvements to Wastewater Facilities - WIFIA Loan and Bond Authorization
EXHIBIT A
REQUIRED GOOD FAITH ESTIMATES PURSUANT TO
GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 5852.1
1.
True Interest Cost of the WIFIA Bond/WIFIA Loan: 1.408%.
2.
Finance charge of the WIFIA Bond/WIFIA Loan, being the sum of all fees and 
charges paid 
to 
third 
parties 
(Costs 
of 
Issuance 
of 
approximately 
$326,000):$326,000.
3.
Amount of proceeds of the WIFIA Bond/WIFIA Loan expected to be received by 
the Authority, net of proceeds for Costs of Issuance in (2) above and net of 
capitalized interest (if any) and reserves (if any) paid or funded with the proceeds 
of the WIFIA Bond/WIFIA Loan: $84,814,000.  
4.
Total payment amount for the WIFIA Bond/WIFIA Loan, being the sum of (a) debt 
service to be paid on the WIFIA Bond/WIFIA Loan to final maturity, plus (b) any 
financing costs not paid from proceeds of the WIFIA Bond/WIFIA Loan: 
$104,880,455.40.
________________
*All amounts and percentages are estimates, and are made in good faith by the financial advisors to the Authority based on 
information available as of the date of adoption of this Resolution.  Estimates include certain assumptions regarding rates 
available at the time of incurring the WIFIA Bond/WIFIA Loan.
10 of 48

--- page 11 ---
S&S DRAFT 11/27/20
AMERICAS/2016550257.5
UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
December [●], 2020
San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
RE:
WIFIA Loan Term Sheet for the San Mateo Basins 2 and 3 Collection System 
Improvements Project with the San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority and 
City of San Mateo (WIFIA Project No. 19101CA)
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This WIFIA Loan Term Sheet (this “Term Sheet”) constitutes (a) the approval of the 
United States Environmental Protection Agency, acting by and through the Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency (hereinafter, the “USEPA”), of the application for credit 
assistance of the Borrower (as defined below) received October 18, 2019 (the “Application”) and 
(b) the agreement of USEPA to provide financing for the above-referenced project (as further 
described below, the “Project”) in the form of a secured loan (the “WIFIA Loan”), pursuant to 
the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (“WIFIA”), § 5021 et seq. of Public Law 
113-121 (as amended by Public Law 114-94, Public Law 114-322 and Public Law 115-270) (the 
“Act”), codified as 33 U.S.C. §§ 3901-3914, subject in all respects to (i) the terms and conditions 
contained herein and (ii) the execution and delivery of the WIFIA loan agreement to be entered 
into on or after the date hereof (the “WIFIA Loan Agreement”) on terms and conditions 
acceptable to USEPA contained therein.  Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein 
shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the WIFIA Loan Agreement.
USEPA’s agreement to provide WIFIA credit assistance to the Project is based upon the 
Application and the supplemental information and documents, including the base case financial 
model, provided to USEPA. This Term Sheet is an agreement of USEPA only to the terms 
specified herein, which may be modified or supplemented by USEPA in its discretion at any time 
and from time to time during the course of its due diligence and credit approval process.
By executing this Term Sheet, each Obligor (as defined below) confirms its agreement to 
reimburse USEPA on a joint and several basis for any and all fees and expenses that USEPA incurs 
for legal counsel, financial advice, and other consultants in connection with the evaluation of the 
Project and the negotiation and preparation of the WIFIA Loan Agreement and related documents, 
whether or not such agreement is ultimately executed.
This Term Sheet shall be governed by the federal laws of the United States of America if 
and to the extent such federal laws are applicable, and the internal laws of the State of California, 
if and to the extent such federal laws are not applicable.
11 of 48

--- page 12 ---
AMERICAS/2016550257.5
2
INDICATIVE TERMS OF THE WIFIA LOAN
WIFIA LENDER
United States Environmental Protection Agency, an agency of the 
United States of America, acting by and through the 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (the 
“WIFIA Lender”).
BORROWER
San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority, a joint 
exercise of powers authority duly organized and existing under 
the laws of the State of California (the “Borrower”).
CITY
City of San Mateo, a chartered city and municipal corporation 
established under the Constitution of the State of California (the 
“City” and, together with the Borrower, the “Obligors”).
PROJECT
The “Project” means the repair, rehabilitation and replacement of 
wastewater infrastructure located in the City of San Mateo, 
California, including upgrades to two (2) existing lift stations, 
upgrades to one (1) existing pump station, construction of an 
underground flow equalization system, and improvements to 
portions of the collection system.
WIFIA LOAN AMOUNT
A maximum principal amount (sum of disbursements) not to 
exceed $85,140,000; provided that (a) the maximum principal 
amount of the WIFIA Loan, together with the amount of any other 
credit assistance provided under the Act, shall not exceed forty-
nine percent (49%) of reasonably anticipated Eligible Project 
Costs and (b) the total federal assistance for the Project, including 
but not limited to the maximum principal amount of the WIFIA 
Loan and all federal grants, shall not exceed eighty percent (80%) 
of Total Project Costs.
INTEREST RATE
The WIFIA Loan shall bear interest at a fixed rate, calculated by 
adding one basis point (0.01%) to the rate of securities of a similar 
maturity (based on the weighted-average life of the WIFIA Loan) 
as published, on the execution date of the WIFIA Loan 
Agreement, in the United States Treasury Bureau of Public Debt’s 
daily rate table for State and Local Government Series (SLGS) 
securities, 
currently 
located 
on 
the 
Internet 
at 
https://www.treasurydirect.gov/GA-SL/SLGS/selectSLGSDate.htm.
Interest shall accrue and be computed on the Outstanding WIFIA 
Loan Balance on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve (12) thirty 
(30) day months.
The WIFIA Loan shall also bear default interest at a rate of two 
hundred (200) basis points above the otherwise applicable interest 
rate, at such times and upon such terms as provided in the WIFIA 
Loan Agreement.
12 of 48

--- page 13 ---
AMERICAS/2016550257.5
3
PAYMENT DATES
Pursuant to the Financing Agreement between the City and the 
Borrower with respect to the Project (the “WIFIA FA”), not later 
than the fifth (5th) Business Day prior to each payment date (each 
such date, an “Authority Bond Payment Date”), the City shall 
transfer to the WIFIA Debt Service Account the amount due and 
payable under the WIFIA FA (such amounts, the “Authority 
Bond Payments”) on such Authority Bond Payment Date. All 
Authority Bond Payments and any other amounts deposited into 
the WIFIA Debt Service Account shall be held by the Borrower 
in trust for the benefit of the WIFIA Lender until the immediately 
succeeding payment date, whereupon such money shall be applied 
to the payment of WIFIA Debt Service.
Principal of the WIFIA Loan shall be repaid in annual installments 
on August 1 of each year, beginning on August 1, 2026.
Interest on the WIFIA Loan shall be paid in arrears on February 1 
and August 1 of each year, beginning on the February 1 or August 
1 immediately succeeding the Initial Disbursement Date.
The debt service payment commencement date shall in no event 
be later than five (5) years after the Substantial Completion Date 
of the Project.
FINAL MATURITY DATE
The earliest of (a) August 1, 2055, (b) the Principal Payment Date 
immediately preceding the date that is thirty-five (35) years 
following the Substantial Completion Date and (c) such earlier 
date acceptable to the WIFIA Lender and the Obligors.
PROJECTED 
SUBSTANTIAL 
COMPLETION DATE
December 20, 2024.
DEDICATED SOURCES 
OF REPAYMENT
The dedicated source of repayment for the Authority Bond 
Payments shall be the Net Revenues (as defined below) derived 
from the System.
“Net Revenues” for any Obligor Fiscal Year means the sum of 
(a) Gross Revenues for such Obligor Fiscal Year plus (b) the 
amounts, if any, withdrawn from the Rate Stabilization Fund and 
deposited into the Revenue Fund in accordance with the WIFIA 
FA for treatment as Gross Revenues for such Obligor Fiscal Year, 
less the sum of (i) all Maintenance and Operation Costs for such 
Obligor Fiscal Year and (ii) the amounts, if any, withdrawn by the 
City from the Revenue Fund in accordance with the WIFIA FA 
during such Obligor Fiscal Year for deposit in the Rate 
Stabilization Fund.
SECURITY OF WIFIA 
LOAN
As security for the WIFIA Loan, the Borrower shall pledge, assign 
and grant to the WIFIA Lender Liens on (a) all of the Authority 
Revenues (as defined below), (b) all of the right, title and interest 
13 of 48

--- page 14 ---
AMERICAS/2016550257.5
4
(but none of the obligations) of the Borrower in the WIFIA FA, 
(c) the WIFIA Debt Service Account and (d) the WIFIA Reserve 
Fund (to the extent such fund is established pursuant to the terms 
of the WIFIA Loan Agreement).
“Authority Revenues” means (a) the Authority Bond Payments, 
(b) all amounts on deposit from time to time in the WIFIA Debt 
Service Account and, as applicable, the WIFIA Reserve Fund and 
(c) income and gains with respect to the investment of amounts 
on deposit in the WIFIA Debt Service Account and, as applicable, 
the WIFIA Reserve Fund.
The debt obligation of the Borrower under the WIFIA Loan shall 
be evidenced through the issuance by the Borrower of the WIFIA 
Bond.
SECURITY AND LIEN 
PRIORITY OF 
AUTHORITY BOND 
PAYMENTS
The City shall pledge, assign and grant Liens to the Borrower on 
the Net Revenues to secure the Authority Bond Payments.  The 
obligations of the City to make the Authority Bond Payments 
constitute Parity Obligations.
The Gross Revenues shall, immediately upon receipt thereof, be 
deposited by the City into the Revenue Fund.  Amounts deposited 
in the Revenue Fund shall be applied in the order of priority 
described in, and in accordance with, the Flow of Funds.
FLOW OF FUNDS
Money in the Revenue Fund, after paying as they become due and 
payable all Maintenance and Operation Costs (including amounts 
reasonably required to be set aside in contingency reserves for 
Maintenance and Operation Costs that are not then due and 
payable), shall be applied by the City to pay when due the 
following amounts in the following order of priority:
(i) On or before each Authority Bond Payment Date, the City 
shall, from amounts in the Revenue Fund, transfer to the Borrower 
for deposit in the WIFIA Debt Service Account an amount that, 
together with amounts held in the WIFIA Debt Service Account 
available for that purpose, is equal to the interest amount 
becoming due and payable on such Authority Bond Payment 
Date, as set forth in Appendix B of the WIFIA FA.
(ii) On or before each Authority Bond Payment Date, the City 
shall, from amounts in the Revenue Fund, transfer to the Borrower 
for deposit in the WIFIA Debt Service Account an amount that, 
together with amounts held in the WIFIA Debt Service Account 
available for that purpose, is equal to the principal amount 
becoming due and payable on such Authority Bond Payment 
Date, as set forth in Appendix B of the WIFIA FA.
(iii) On or before each Authority Bond Payment Date, the City 
shall, from amounts in the Revenue Fund, pay to the party entitled 
14 of 48

--- page 15 ---
AMERICAS/2016550257.5
5
thereto or transfer or cause to be transferred to any applicable debt 
service or other payment fund or account for any Parity 
Obligations, without preference or priority to the transfers made 
pursuant to the preceding clauses (i) and (ii), on the dates specified 
in the Issuing Instrument relating to such Parity Obligations, the 
sum or sums required to be paid or deposited in such debt service 
or other payment fund or account with respect to principal, 
premium, if any, and interest on Parity Obligations (excluding 
Hedging Termination Obligations).
(iv) On or before each Authority Bond Payment Date, the City 
shall, from amounts in the Revenue Fund in excess of the sums 
required to make the transfers specified in the foregoing clauses 
(i), (ii) and (iii), (A) following the occurrence of a WIFIA Reserve 
Funding Trigger Event, transfer to the WIFIA Reserve Fund an 
amount at least equal to ten percent (10%) of the WIFIA Reserve 
Fund Requirement until such requirement has been fully satisfied 
and (B) transfer or cause to be transferred to any applicable debt 
service reserve fund for any Parity Obligation other than the 
WIFIA Bond, the sum or sums required to be paid or deposited in 
such debt service reserve fund in accordance with the terms of 
such Parity Obligation. 
(v) On or before each Authority Bond Payment Date, the City 
shall, from amounts in the Revenue Fund in excess of the sums 
required to make the transfers specified in foregoing clauses (i), 
(ii), (iii) and (iv), pay to the party entitled thereto or transfer or 
cause to be transferred to any applicable debt service or other 
payment fund or account for any Subordinated Obligations or any 
Hedging Termination Obligations, on the dates specified in the 
Issuing Instrument relating to such Subordinated Obligations or 
such Hedging Termination Obligations, the sum or sums required 
to be paid or deposited in such debt service or other payment fund 
or account with respect to principal, premium, if any, and interest 
on Subordinated Obligations or with respect to Hedging 
Termination Obligations.
(vi) All money on deposit in the Sewer Revenue Fund in excess 
of the sums required to be set aside on or before each Authority 
Bond Payment Date by the provisions of the foregoing clauses (i), 
(ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) shall be available for (A) the payment of any 
unsecured obligations, (B) the acquisition and construction of 
improvements to the System, (C) any transfers permitted by the 
WIFIA FA to the Rate Stabilization Fund and (D) any other lawful 
purpose of the City (provided that the foregoing clause (D) shall 
not supersede, modify or otherwise affect the City’s obligations 
pursuant to the “Restricted Payments and Transfers” item below). 
15 of 48

--- page 16 ---
AMERICAS/2016550257.5
6
PREPAYMENT OF WIFIA 
LOAN BY BORROWER
The Borrower may prepay the WIFIA Loan in whole or in part, 
without penalty or premium; provided that any such prepayment 
shall be in a minimum principal amount of $1,000,000 or any 
integral multiple of $1.00 in excess thereof, and otherwise in 
accordance with the WIFIA Loan Agreement.
RATE COVENANT OF 
THE CITY
The City shall fix, prescribe, revise and collect rates, fees and 
charges for the services and facilities furnished by the System 
during each Obligor Fiscal Year which are at least sufficient to 
yield (a) Net Revenues for such Obligor Fiscal Year at least equal 
to one hundred twenty percent (120%) of Debt Service on all 
Parity Obligations for such Obligor Fiscal Year and (b) Net 
Revenues for such Obligor Fiscal Year at least equal to one 
hundred percent (100%) of Debt Service on all Parity Obligations 
plus debt service on all Subordinated Obligations for such Obligor 
Fiscal Year.
ADDITIONAL 
INDEBTEDNESS AND 
OBLIGATIONS
Borrower Indebtedness.  The Borrower shall not create, incur or 
suffer to exist any obligations (i) other than obligations secured 
by Liens on payments by either or both of the Members of 
principal, interest or redemption expenses or (ii) which are senior 
or prior in right to the payment by the Borrower of the WIFIA 
Loan, and in no event shall any obligations other than the WIFIA 
Loan be secured by Liens on the Authority Revenues.
Senior Lien and Project Obligations.  The City shall not create, 
incur or suffer to exist (i) any Obligations which are senior or prior 
in right to (A) the payment by the City of the Authority Bond 
Payments and the other Parity Obligations or (B) the Lien on the 
Net Revenues in favor of the Borrower or (ii) any obligations, all 
or a portion of the proceeds of which are or will be applied at any 
time to fund all or any portion of Total Project Costs, that are 
secured by a Lien on any assets or property of the City other than 
the Net Revenues (except for a Lien on the City’s interest in all or 
a portion of the proceeds of the disbursements of the WIFIA Loan 
granted by the City to an issuer of Interim Financing to secure the 
City’s obligation to repay such Interim Financing).
Issuance of Parity Obligations.
(i) Without regard to subsection (iv) of this section, the City may 
at any time issue or enter into an obligation or commitment which 
is a Qualified Swap Agreement, provided (A) the Qualified Swap 
Agreement shall relate to a principal amount of Outstanding 
Parity Obligations or investments held under an Issuing 
Instrument for Parity Obligations, in each case specified by the 
City’s Authorized Representative, and (B) the notional amount of 
the Qualified Swap Agreement shall not exceed the principal 
16 of 48

--- page 17 ---
AMERICAS/2016550257.5
7
amount of the related Parity Obligation or the amount of such 
investments, as applicable.
(ii) Without regard to subsection (iv) of this section, the City may 
at any time issue Refunding Parity Obligations provided that the 
WIFIA Lender receives an opinion letter of the City’s bond 
counsel to the effect that the Parity Obligations to be refunded are 
deemed paid pursuant to the Issuing Instrument authorizing such 
Parity Obligations.
(iii) Without regard to subsection (iv) of this section, the City may 
enter into Credit Support Instruments or otherwise become 
obligated for Credit Provider Reimbursement Obligations from 
time to time.
(iv) The City may, at any time and from time to time, issue any 
Additional Parity Obligations, provided the City obtains or 
provides a certificate or certificates, prepared by the City or at the 
City’s option by a Consultant, showing that: 
  (A) Net Revenues for the applicable Calculation Period shall 
have amounted to at least 1.20 times the Maximum Annual Debt 
Service on all Parity Obligations to be Outstanding immediately 
after the issuance of the proposed Additional Parity Obligations; 
or
  (B) estimated Net Revenues for each of the five (5) full Obligor 
Fiscal Years beginning with the first full Obligor Fiscal Year 
following the issuance of the proposed Additional Parity 
Obligations is at least equal to 1.20 times the Debt Service 
scheduled to be paid in each such Obligor Fiscal Year on all Parity 
Obligations to be Outstanding immediately after the issuance of 
the proposed Additional Parity Obligations. 
(v) For purposes of calculating either of the coverage tests 
described in subsection (iv) of this section, the proceeds of the 
Federal Subsidy, if any, received by the City will not be included 
in Net Revenues and will be subtracted from the amount of 
interest payable in calculating Debt Service. 
(vi) For purposes of preparing the certificate or certificates 
described in subsection (iv) of this section, the City and any 
Consultant may rely upon the books and records of the City or any 
financial statements prepared by the City which have not been 
subject to audit by an Independent Accountant if audited financial 
statements for the particular Calculation Period selected by the 
City are not available.
(vii) For purposes of the computations to be made as described in 
subsection (iv)(B) of this section, the estimated Net Revenues: 
17 of 48

--- page 18 ---
AMERICAS/2016550257.5
8
  (A) may take into account any increases in rates and charges 
which relate to the System and which have been approved by the 
City Council of the City, and shall take into account any reduction 
in such rates and charges which have been approved by the City 
Council of the City, which will be effective during the Obligor 
Fiscal Year for which such estimate is made; provided that an 
increase may only be taken into account if such increase takes 
effect during the Obligor Fiscal Years contemplated by subsection 
(iv)(B) of this section; and 
  (B) may take into account an allowance for any estimated 
increase in such Net Revenues from any revenue producing 
additions or improvements to or extensions of the System, to be 
made with the proceeds of such Additional Parity Obligations or 
with the proceeds of Parity Obligations previously issued, all in 
an amount equal to the estimated additional average annual Net 
Revenues to be derived from such additions, improvements and 
extensions during the Obligor Fiscal Years contemplated by 
subsection (iv)(B) of this section; and 
  (C) for the Obligor Fiscal Years contemplated by subsection 
(iv)(B) of this section, Maintenance and Operation Costs shall 
initially be deemed to be equal to such costs for the twelve (12) 
consecutive months immediately prior to incurring such 
Additional Parity Obligations, but adjusted if deemed necessary 
by the City or a Consultant, as applicable, for any increased 
Maintenance and Operations Costs which are, in the judgment of 
the City or such Consultant, as applicable, essential to maintaining 
and operating the System and which will occur during the Obligor 
Fiscal Years contemplated by subsection (iv)(B) of this section.
(viii) Upon the incurrence of any Additional Parity Obligations, 
the City shall provide to the WIFIA Lender a certificate signed by 
the City’s Authorized Representative (A) specifying the closing 
date with respect to such Additional Parity Obligations and (B) 
confirming that such Additional Parity Obligations are authorized 
pursuant to, and satisfy the applicable requirements under, the 
WIFIA Loan Agreement.
Issuance of Subordinated Obligations.
(i) Nothing in this Item limits or affects the ability of the City to 
issue or incur obligations which are unsecured or which are 
secured by an interest which is junior and subordinate to the 
pledge of and lien upon the Net Revenues established under the 
WIFIA FA.
(ii) Subject to the terms of the WIFIA Loan Agreement, the City 
may, at any time or from time to time, issue Additional 
Subordinated Obligations for any purpose in connection with the 
18 of 48

--- page 19 ---
AMERICAS/2016550257.5
9
System, including the financing of a part of the cost of acquisition 
and construction of any additions to or improvements of the 
System or the refunding of any Subordinated Obligations or 
Outstanding Parity Obligations (or portions thereof).  Such 
Additional Subordinated Obligations shall be payable out of 
amounts in the Revenue Fund as may from time to time be 
available therefor, provided that any such payment shall be, and 
shall be expressed to be, subordinate and junior in all respects to 
the payment of such Parity Obligations as may be Outstanding 
from time to time, including Parity Obligations issued after the 
issuance of such Additional Subordinated Obligations.
(iii) Any Additional Subordinated Obligations may have such 
rank or priority with respect to any other Subordinated 
Obligations as may be provided in the Issuing Instrument 
authorizing the issuance, incurrence or securing of such 
Additional Subordinated Obligations and may contain such other 
provisions as are not in conflict with the provisions of the WIFIA 
Loan Agreement or any other Related Document.
(iv) Upon the incurrence of any Additional Subordinated 
Obligations, the City shall provide to the WIFIA Lender a 
certificate signed by the City’s Authorized Representative (A) 
specifying the closing date with respect to such Additional 
Subordinated Obligations and (B) confirming that such 
Additional Subordinated Obligations are authorized pursuant to, 
and satisfy the applicable requirements under, the WIFIA Loan 
Agreement.
RESTRICTED 
PAYMENTS AND 
TRANSFERS
The City shall not permit the Gross Revenues or any funds in any 
other fund or account held by or on behalf of the City with respect 
to the System, to be paid or transferred or otherwise applied for 
purposes other than ownership, operation or maintenance of the 
System or other legally permitted purposes related to the System.
WIFIA RESERVE FUND
Upon the incurrence or existence of any Additional Parity 
Obligations of the City benefiting from a debt service reserve fund 
(a “WIFIA Reserve Funding Trigger Event”), the Borrower 
shall establish and maintain a WIFIA Reserve Fund in accordance 
with the WIFIA Loan Agreement for the exclusive benefit of the 
WIFIA Lender.  The WIFIA Reserve Fund shall be secured by a 
valid and binding pledge, assignment and Lien, automatically and 
without the need for any notice to or from any Person, physical 
delivery, recordation, filing or further act, and shall not be subject 
to any Lien in favor of any Person other than the WIFIA Lender.  
Amounts on deposit in the WIFIA Reserve Fund shall be applied 
solely to pay the principal, interest and other amounts due with 
respect to the WIFIA Loan.
19 of 48

--- page 20 ---
AMERICAS/2016550257.5
10
The City shall cause the WIFIA Reserve Fund to be funded 
pursuant to the Flow of Funds over a period not to exceed five (5) 
years following the occurrence of a WIFIA Reserve Funding 
Trigger Event until the WIFIA Reserve Fund Requirement (as 
defined below) is satisfied.  All deposits shall be made directly by 
the City to the WIFIA Reserve Fund for the benefit of the WIFIA 
Lender.
A surety bond issued to the WIFIA Lender by a company licensed 
to issue a surety bond guaranteeing the timely payment of 
principal of and interest on the WIFIA Bond may be deposited in 
the WIFIA Reserve Fund to meet the WIFIA Reserve Fund 
Requirement if (a) one or more surety bonds has been deposited 
into the reserve fund of each Outstanding Additional Parity 
Obligation with a debt service reserve requirement to meet such 
requirement and (b) the claims paying ability of such company 
shall be rated at the time of such deposit at least equal to the 
second highest rating category (disregarding rating subcategories) 
by no fewer than two (2) Nationally Recognized Rating Agencies, 
but in no event less than the rating on the WIFIA Bond given by 
any Nationally Recognized Rating Agency which has a then 
currently effective rating on the WIFIA Bond.
“WIFIA Reserve Fund Requirement” means, as of any 
Payment Date, an amount calculated on the same basis as the 
reserve fund requirement on any Outstanding Additional Parity 
Obligation that includes such a requirement.  To the extent there 
is more than one Outstanding Additional Parity Obligation with a 
reserve fund requirement, the WIFIA Reserve Fund Requirement 
shall 
be 
calculated 
on 
the 
same 
basis 
as 
the 
reserve fund requirement on the Outstanding Additional Parity 
Obligation that produces the highest WIFIA Reserve Fund 
Requirement result. To the extent there is no debt service reserve 
requirement on any Outstanding Additional Parity Obligation, the 
WIFIA Reserve Fund Requirement shall be equal to $0.
WIFIA LOAN 
DOCUMENTATION
The WIFIA Loan shall be subject to the preparation, execution 
and delivery of the WIFIA Loan Agreement, the WIFIA FA, the 
WIFIA Bond and any other loan documentation required by the 
WIFIA Lender in connection therewith, in each case acceptable 
to the WIFIA Lender, the Borrower and the City (as applicable), 
which will contain certain conditions precedent, representations 
and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, events of 
default, in each case, with respect to the Borrower and the City, 
and other provisions as agreed among the WIFIA Lender, the 
Borrower and the City (as applicable).
GOVERNING LAW
Federal laws of the United States of America, if and to the extent 
such federal laws are applicable, and the internal laws of the State 
20 of 48

--- page 21 ---
AMERICAS/2016550257.5
11
of California, if and to the extent such federal laws are not 
applicable.
COUNTERPARTS
This Term Sheet, and any amendments, waivers, consents or 
supplements hereto may be executed in any number of 
counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, 
each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed 
an original, but all such counterparts together shall constitute but 
one and the same instrument.  Signature pages may be detached 
from multiple separate counterparts and attached to a single 
counterpart so that all signature pages are physically attached to 
the same document. Electronic delivery of an executed 
counterpart of a signature page shall be effective as delivery of an 
original executed counterpart.
[Signature pages follow]
21 of 48

--- page 22 ---
[Signature page to San Mateo Basins 2 and 3 Collection System Improvements Project 
(San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority and City of San Mateo) – WIFIA Term Sheet]
If the foregoing terms are acceptable, please countersign this letter in the space indicated 
below.
Sincerely,
UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL 
PROTECTION AGENCY, acting by and 
through the Administrator of the United States 
Environmental Protection Agency
By:
_______________________________
Name: Andrew R. Wheeler
Title: Administrator
22 of 48

--- page 23 ---
[Signature page to San Mateo Basins 2 and 3 Collection System Improvements Project 
(San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority and City of San Mateo) – WIFIA Term Sheet]
ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED:
SAN MATEO-FOSTER CITY PUBLIC 
FINANCING AUTHORITY, 
by its authorized representative
By:
_______________________________
Name:
Title:
23 of 48

--- page 24 ---
[Signature page to San Mateo Basins 2 and 3 Collection System Improvements Project 
(San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority and City of San Mateo) – WIFIA Term Sheet]
ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED:
CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
by its authorized representative
By:
_______________________________
Name:
Title:
Approved as to form
_________________________
City Attorney
24 of 48

--- page 25 ---
Hawkins Delafield & Wood LLP
Draft of 11/20/2020
3534079.4 044715  AGMT
FINANCING AGREEMENT
Relating to
San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority
San Mateo Basins 2 and 3 Collection System Improvements (WIFIA – N19101CA)
This FINANCING AGREEMENT (this “Agreement”), dated as of December [__], 2020, 
is between SAN MATEO-FOSTER CITY PUBLIC FINANCING AUTHORITY, a joint exercise 
of powers authority duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of California (the 
“Authority”), and the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a chartered city and municipal corporation 
established under the Constitution of the State of California (the “City”).
BACKGROUND RECITALS:
A.
The Estero Municipal Improvement District (the “District”; together with the City, 
the “Members”) and the City previously entered into that certain Joint Powers Agreement Between 
the City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District for Operation of the City of 
San Mateo Wastewater Treatment Plant and Construction of Capital Improvements Under the 
Clean Water Program, dated April 17, 2017, as amended by an “Amendment to the Joint Powers 
Agreement Between the City of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement District for 
Operation of the City of San Mateo Wastewater Treatment Plant and Construction of Capital 
Improvements under the Clean Water Program” dated February 19, 2019 (as it may be further 
amended from time to time hereafter, the “Construction/Operation JPA Agreement”).
B.
Pursuant to the Construction/Operation JPA Agreement, the District and the City 
jointly own certain wastewater treatment, conveyance and disposal facilities from the point of 
entry of the influent sewage lines into the City of San Mateo Wastewater Treatment Plant (the 
“Treatment Plant”) to the effluent outfall point in the San Francisco Bay, including associated 
buildings that are used for treatment of wastewater to comply with regulatory requirements (such 
jointly owned facilities, the “Jointly Owned Facilities”).
C.
The sanitary sewer collection and conveyance systems independently owned by the 
City and the District that deliver sewage to the Treatment Plant are not Jointly Owned Facilities 
and are not subject to the Construction/Operation JPA Agreement.
D.
The Construction/Operation JPA Agreement provides that the City and the District 
may enter into an agreement to provide sewer services to areas outside of their respective service 
boundaries as long as such agreement does not cause the City or the District to exceed its 
“Purchased Capacity” (as defined in the Construction/Operation JPA Agreement). The City has 
entered into that certain Sanitary Sewage Agreement Between the Town of Hillsborough, City of 
San Mateo, Crystal Springs County Sanitation District and the County of San Mateo, dated July 
18, 1989 (as it may be amended from time to time, the “Additional Capacity Use Agreement”; the 
Town of Hillsborough, the Crystal Springs County Sanitation District and the County of San Mateo 
are referred to as the “Additional Capacity Users”).
E.
In order to provide a mechanism by which (i) the improvement of the Jointly 
Owned Facilities could be jointly financed and each of the City and the District would be solely 
responsible for its share of the costs, (ii) each of the City and the District could finance the costs 
25 of 48

--- page 26 ---
2
3534079.4 044715  AGMT
of its own collection and transmission system and (iii) each of the Additional Capacity Users that 
are members of the Authority (if any) could finance a share of the capital costs attributable to its 
use of the Jointly Owned Facilities and its own collection and transmissions system, the Members 
entered into a Joint Exercise of Powers Agreement on February 29, 2016, which was amended on 
April 24, 2020 (the “Joint Powers Agreement”), under which the Authority has been organized as 
a joint powers authority which is a public entity separate and apart from the Members.
F.
The City is undertaking capital improvements to its wastewater facilities in 
compliance with (i) Cease and Desist Order No. R2-2009-0020, (ii) the National Pollution 
Discharge Elimination System (“NPDES”) permit for the Jointly Owned Facilities and (iii) the 
Integrated Wastewater Master Plan dated October 2014 prepared by Carollo Engineers.  Such 
capital improvements include the repair, rehabilitation and replacement of wastewater 
infrastructure located in the City, including upgrades to two (2) existing lift stations, upgrades to 
one (1) existing pump station, construction of an underground flow equalization system, and 
improvements to portions of the collection system (the “Project”).
G.
The City has asked the Authority to provide financing for the Project by entering 
into a loan (the “WIFIA Loan”) with the United States Environmental Protection Agency, acting 
by and through the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (the “WIFIA Lender”) 
pursuant to the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act, § 5021 et seq. of Public Law 
113-121 (as amended by Public Law 114-94, Public Law 114-322 and Public Law 115-270), 
codified as 33 U.S.C. §§ 3901-3914.
H.
For the purpose of financing and refinancing a portion of the costs of the Project, 
the Authority and the City may undertake interim financing and it is expected that such financing 
would be repaid with the proceeds of the WIFIA Loan.
I.
In order to evidence the WIFIA Loan, the Authority has authorized the issuance of 
its San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority 2020C Wastewater Revenue Bond (WIFIA 
Loan) (the “WIFIA Bond”), under the provisions of Article 4 (commencing with Section 6584) of 
Chapter 5 of Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code of the State of California. The 
maximum principal amount of the WIFIA Bond shall not exceed $85,140,000. Interest shall accrue 
on the WIFIA Bond at the interest rates and be payable on the dates as provided therein and in the 
WIFIA Loan Agreement.
J.
The WIFIA Bond will be issued pursuant to the WIFIA Loan Agreement, dated as 
of the date hereof (the “WIFIA Loan Agreement”), by and among the Authority, the WIFIA Lender 
and the City. 
K.
The Authority and the City wish to enter into this Agreement in order to implement 
the existing provisions of the Joint Powers Agreement with respect to repayment of the WIFIA 
Bond and the WIFIA Loan and to provide adequate security for the WIFIA Bond and the WIFIA 
Loan.
L.
The City, acting under and pursuant to the powers reserved to the City under 
Sections 3, 5 and 7 of Article XI of the Constitution of the State of California and Section 1.03 and 
Section 9.06 of the Charter of the City, operates and maintains facilities for the collection, 
26 of 48

--- page 27 ---
3
3534079.4 044715  AGMT
treatment and disposal of sewage, waste and storm water (as further defined in Appendix A, the 
“Sewer Enterprise”).
M.
The City is empowered pursuant to Section 5.23 of the Charter and Ordinance No. 
1989-23 to issue revenue bonds, including notes and other obligations, for the financing and 
refinancing of the Sewer Enterprise.
N.
The City previously has issued or incurred the following outstanding obligations 
for the purpose of financing and refinancing, as applicable, certain improvements to the Sewer 
Enterprise:
(a)
City of San Mateo Sewer Revenue Bonds, 2011 Series A (the “2011 
Bonds”); 
(b)
City of San Mateo Sewer Revenue Bonds, 2014 Series A (the “2014 
Bonds”); 
(c)
Financing Agreement Relating to San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing 
Authority 2019 Wastewater Revenue Bonds (Clean Water Program), dated as of May 1, 
2019 (the “2019 City Financing Agreement”), between the City and the Authority; and
(d)
Financing Agreement Relating to San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing 
Authority 2020A Wastewater Revenue Bond (City WIFIA Loan), dated as of November 
5, 2020 (the “2020A City Financing Agreement,” and together with the 2011 Bonds, the 
2014 Bonds and the 2019 City Financing Agreement, the “Existing Obligations”), between 
the City and the Authority.
O.
The 2011 Bonds and the 2014 Bonds are outstanding under a Second Amended and 
Restated Master Indenture, dated as of July 1, 2014, by and between the City and The Bank of 
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as amended and supplemented, the “Master Indenture”).
P.
The Existing Obligations are secured by a pledge of and payable from Net 
Revenues of the Sewer Enterprise.
Q.
The Master Indenture, the 2019 City Financing Agreement and the 2020A 
Financing Agreement allow the City to incur additional obligations secured by and payable from 
Net Revenues on a parity basis with the other Existing Obligations.
A G R E E M E N T :
In consideration of the foregoing and the material covenants hereinafter contained, the City 
and the Authority formally agree as follows:
Section 1.
Definitions.  Unless the context clearly otherwise requires or unless 
otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the recitals above and in Appendix A hereto have 
the respective meanings given those terms when used in this Agreement. 
27 of 48

--- page 28 ---
4
3534079.4 044715  AGMT
Section 2.
Installment Sale.  The City hereby sells, bargains and conveys its interests 
in the Project to the Authority, and the Authority hereby purchases the City’s interests in the 
Project from the City for the purchase price equal to the sum of the disbursements to be made 
under the WIFIA Loan Agreement. The Authority hereby sells, bargains, and conveys such 
interests in the Project to the City, and the City hereby purchases such interests in the Project from 
the Authority for the Authority Bond Payments due hereunder. Title to the City’s interests in the 
Project shall be deemed conveyed by the Authority to and vested in the City on the execution date 
of this Agreement.
Section 3.
Debt Service Payments; Prepayment.
(a)
Payment Dates and Amounts.  The City shall be solely responsible for payment of 
the Authority Bond Payments. The City shall pay the Authority Bond Payments in semiannual 
installments in the amounts and at the times set forth in Appendix B hereto.  The Authority and 
the City acknowledge and agree that the Authority Bond Payments set forth in Appendix B hereto 
are initially equal to the payments of principal and interest set forth on the Loan Amortization 
Schedule in Exhibit F (WIFIA Debt Service) to the WIFIA Loan Agreement in all respects, other 
than with respect to the relevant payment dates. The Authority and the City agree that (i) upon any 
modification to Exhibit F (WIFIA Debt Service) to the WIFIA Loan Agreement, Appendix B 
hereto shall be deemed modified mutatis mutandis, (ii) the City will provide to the Authority (with 
a copy to the WIFIA Lender) a revised Appendix B which the Authority and the City agree will 
replace the then current Appendix B (such replacement being a ministerial act and not an 
amendment or supplement to this Agreement), (iii) no modification to Appendix B hereto shall 
otherwise be made without the consent of the WIFIA Lender and (iv) the City’s failure to provide 
or delay in delivering such revised Appendix B shall not affect the modifications deemed to be 
made thereto or the obligation of the City to make the Authority Bond Payments as so modified.
(b)
Optional Prepayment.  The City may exercise its option to prepay the principal 
components of the Authority Bond Payments in whole or in part on any date on which the WIFIA 
Loan is subject to optional prepayment under the WIFIA Loan Agreement. Such option shall be 
exercised by payment of a prepayment price equal to the sum of (a) the aggregate principal 
components of the Authority Bond Payments to be prepaid and (b) the interest component of the 
Authority Bond Payments required to be paid on or accrued to such date; provided that such 
prepayments shall be in principal amounts of $1,000,000 or any integral multiple of $1.00 in excess 
thereof.  The City shall prepay the Authority Bond Payments on the same dates and in the same 
amounts as the Authority’s optional prepayments of the WIFIA Loan in accordance with the 
WIFIA Loan Agreement and shall not optionally prepay the Authority Bond Payments at any other 
time or in any other amounts.
(c)
No Defeasance. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any document, neither 
the Authority Bond Payments, the WIFIA Loan or the WIFIA Bond shall be subject to defeasance.
Section 4.
Pledge of Net Revenues; Application of Revenues.
(a)
Pledge of Net Revenues.  The City hereby pledges and creates a lien on and security 
interest in all Net Revenues to secure the payment of the Authority Bond Payments as provided 
herein; provided, that out of the Net Revenues and other moneys there may be applied such sums 
28 of 48

--- page 29 ---
5
3534079.4 044715  AGMT
for such purposes as are permitted hereunder. This pledge shall constitute a pledge of and charge 
and lien upon the Net Revenues, and all other moneys on deposit in the funds and accounts 
established hereunder to secure the payment of the Authority Bond Payments, which pledge and 
lien is on a parity with the pledge and lien thereon for the benefit of other Parity Obligations in 
accordance with the terms hereof and thereof.
(b)
Sewer Revenue Fund; Application of Revenues.  In order to carry out and effectuate 
the pledge, charge, and lien contained herein, the City agrees and covenants that all Revenues 
received by it shall be deposited when and as received in the City of San Mateo Sewer Revenue 
Fund which fund the City agrees and covenants to maintain so long as the Authority Bond 
Payments are unpaid, and all money on deposit in the Sewer Revenue Fund shall be applied and 
used only as provided below, and shall be accounted for separate and apart from all other moneys, 
funds, or other resources of the City. The City may, to the extent provided in Section 12, transfer 
amounts in the Sewer Revenue Fund to the Rate Stabilization Fund or from the Rate Stabilization 
Fund to the Sewer Revenue Fund.
Money in the Sewer Revenue Fund, after paying as they become due and payable all 
Maintenance and Operation Costs (including amounts reasonably required to be set aside in 
contingency reserves for Maintenance and Operation Costs the payment of which is not 
immediately due and payable), shall be applied by the City to pay when due the following amounts 
in the following order of priority:
(i)
On or before each Authority Bond Payment Date, the City shall, from 
amounts in the Sewer Revenue Fund, transfer to the Authority for deposit in the WIFIA 
Debt Service Account an amount that, together with amounts held in the WIFIA Debt 
Service Account available for that purpose, is equal to the interest amount becoming due 
and payable on such Authority Bond Payment Date, as set forth in Appendix B hereto.
(ii)
On or before each Authority Bond Payment Date, the City shall, from 
amounts in the Sewer Revenue Fund, transfer to the Authority for deposit in the WIFIA 
Debt Service Account an amount that, together with amounts held in the WIFIA Debt 
Service Account available for that purpose, is equal to the principal amount becoming due 
and payable on such Authority Bond Payment Date, as set forth in Appendix B hereto.
(iii)
On or before each Authority Bond Payment Date, the City shall, from 
amounts in the Sewer Revenue Fund, pay to the party entitled thereto or transfer or cause 
to be transferred to any applicable debt service or other payment fund or account for any 
Parity Obligations, without preference or priority to the transfers made pursuant to the 
preceding clauses (i) and (ii), on the dates specified in the Issuing Instrument relating to 
such Parity Obligations, the sum or sums required to be paid or deposited in such debt 
service or other payment fund or account with respect to principal, premium, if any, and 
interest on Parity Obligations (excluding Hedging Termination Obligations (as defined in 
the WIFIA Loan Agreement)).
(iv)
On or before each Authority Bond Payment Date, the City shall, from 
amounts in the Sewer Revenue Fund in excess of the sums required to make the transfers 
specified in the foregoing clauses (i), (ii) and (iii), (A) following the occurrence of a WIFIA 
29 of 48

--- page 30 ---
6
3534079.4 044715  AGMT
Reserve Funding Trigger Event (as defined in the WIFIA Loan Agreement), transfer to the 
WIFIA Reserve Fund an amount at least equal to ten percent (10%) of the WIFIA Reserve 
Fund Requirement (as defined in the WIFIA Loan Agreement) until such requirement has 
been fully satisfied and (B) transfer or cause to be transferred to any applicable debt service 
reserve fund for any Parity Obligation other than the WIFIA Bond, the sum or sums 
required to be paid or deposited in such debt service reserve fund in accordance with the 
terms of such Parity Obligation. 
(v)
On or before each Authority Bond Payment Date, the City shall, from 
amounts in the Sewer Revenue Fund in excess of the sums required to make the transfers 
specified in foregoing clauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv), pay to the party entitled thereto or 
transfer or cause to be transferred to any applicable debt service or other payment fund or 
account for any Subordinated Obligations or any Hedging Termination Obligations, on the 
dates specified in the Issuing Instrument relating to such Subordinated Obligations or such 
Hedging Termination Obligations, the sum or sums required to be paid or deposited in such 
debt service or other payment fund or account with respect to principal, premium, if any, 
and interest on Subordinated Obligations or with respect to Hedging Termination 
Obligations.
(vi)
All money on deposit in the Sewer Revenue Fund in excess of the sums 
required to be set aside on or before each Authority Bond Payment Date by the provisions 
of the foregoing clauses (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) shall be available for (A) the payment of 
any unsecured obligations, (B) the acquisition and construction of improvements to the 
System, (C) any transfers permitted under this Agreement to the Rate Stabilization Fund 
and (D) any other lawful purpose of the City (provided that the foregoing clause (D) shall 
not supersede, modify or otherwise affect the City's obligations pursuant to Section 15(g) 
of the WIFIA Loan Agreement).
The City shall manage, conserve, and apply amounts on deposit in the Sewer Revenue 
Fund in such a manner that all deposits required to be made under this Section 4 will be made at 
the times and in the amounts so required.
Section 5.
Special Obligation of the City; Obligations Absolute; No Cross-
Collateralization.
(a)
Special Obligation of the City.  The City’s obligation to pay the Authority Bond 
Payments and any other amounts coming due and payable hereunder is a special obligation of the 
City limited to its Net Revenues. Under no circumstances is the City required to advance moneys 
derived from any source of income other than its Net Revenues and other sources specifically 
identified herein for the payment of the Authority Bond Payments and such other amounts. No 
other funds or property of the City secure the payment of the Authority Bond Payments and any 
other amounts coming due and payable hereunder.
(b)
Obligations Absolute. The obligations of the City to pay the Authority Bond 
Payments from its Net Revenues and to perform and observe the other agreements contained herein 
are absolute and unconditional and are not subject to any defense or any right of set-off, 
counterclaim, or recoupment arising out of any breach by the Authority of any obligation to the 
30 of 48

--- page 31 ---
7
3534079.4 044715  AGMT
City or otherwise with respect to the Sewer Enterprise, whether hereunder or otherwise, or out of 
indebtedness or liability at any time owing to the City by the Authority. Until all of the Authority 
Bond Payments are fully paid or prepaid, the City will (i) not suspend or discontinue payment of 
any Authority Bond Payments, (ii) perform and observe all other agreements contained in this 
Agreement, and (iii) not terminate this Agreement for any cause, including but not limited to the 
occurrence of any acts or circumstances that may constitute failure of consideration, eviction or 
constructive eviction, destruction of or damage to the Sewer Enterprise or the Jointly Owned 
Facilities, failure to complete the acquisition and construction of the Project by the estimated 
completion date thereof, sale of the Jointly Owned Facilities or the Sewer Enterprise, the taking 
by eminent domain of title to or temporary use of any component of the Jointly Owned Facilities 
or the Sewer Enterprise, commercial frustration of purpose, any change in the tax laws or other 
laws of the United States of America or the State of California or any political subdivision of either 
thereof or any failure of the Authority to perform and observe any agreement, whether express or 
implied, or any duty, liability, or obligation arising out of or connected with the WIFIA Loan 
Agreement or this Agreement.
Section 6.
Rates and Charges.
The City will at all times fix, prescribe, and collect rates and charges for the water 
reclamation and sewage collection, treatment, and disposal service made available or provided by 
the Sewer Enterprise during each Fiscal Year which will be at least sufficient to yield:
(a)
Net Revenues for such Fiscal Year at least equal to one hundred twenty percent 
(120%) of Debt Service on Parity Obligations for such Fiscal Year; and
(b)
Net Revenues equal to one hundred percent (100%) of Debt Service on all Parity 
Obligations plus debt service on all Subordinated Obligations for such Fiscal Year.
The City may make adjustments from time to time in such fees and charges and may make 
such classification thereof as it deems necessary, but shall not reduce the rates and charges then in 
effect unless the Net Revenues from such reduced rates and charges will at all times be sufficient 
to meet the requirements of this Section 6. The City shall increase such rates, fees, and charges 
whenever necessary to produce Net Revenues sufficient to meet the requirements of this Section 6.
Section 7.
No Senior Lien Debt.  So long as the Authority Bond Payments remain 
unpaid, the City shall not issue or incur any additional bonds or other obligations which are senior 
in right of payment or security to the Authority Bond Payments.
Section 8.
Issuance of Parity Obligations.
(a)
Without regard to subsection (e) of this Section 8, the City may at any time issue 
or enter into an obligation or commitment which is a Qualified Swap Agreement, provided (i) the 
Qualified Swap Agreement shall relate to a principal amount of Outstanding Parity Obligations or 
investments held under an Issuing Instrument for Parity Obligations, in each case specified by an 
Authorized Representative; and (ii) the notional amount of the Qualified Swap Agreement shall 
not exceed the principal amount of the related Parity Obligation or the amount of such investments, 
as applicable.
31 of 48

--- page 32 ---
8
3534079.4 044715  AGMT
(b)
Without regard to subsection (e) of this Section 8, the City may at any time issue 
Refunding Parity Obligations provided that the WIFIA Lender receives an opinion letter of the 
City’s bond counsel to the effect that the Parity Obligations to be refunded are deemed paid 
pursuant to the Issuing Instrument authorizing such Parity Obligations.
(c)
Reserved.
(d)
Without regard to subsection (e) of this Section 8, the City may enter into Credit 
Support Instruments or otherwise become obligated for Credit Provider Reimbursement 
Obligations from time to time.
(e)
The City may, at any time and from time to time, issue any Additional Parity 
Obligations, provided the City obtains or provides a certificate or certificates, prepared by the City 
or at the City’s option by a Consultant, showing that:
(i)
Net Revenues for the applicable Calculation Period shall have amounted to 
at least 1.20 times the Maximum Annual Debt Service on all Parity Obligations to be 
Outstanding immediately after the issuance of the proposed Additional Parity Obligations, 
or
(ii)
estimated Net Revenues for each of the five full Fiscal Years beginning with 
the first full Fiscal Year following the issuance of the proposed Additional Parity 
Obligations is at least equal to 1.20 times the Debt Service scheduled to be paid in each 
Fiscal Year on all Parity Obligations to be Outstanding immediately after the issuance of 
the proposed Additional Parity Obligations.
For purposes of calculating either of the coverage tests described in Section 8(e), the 
proceeds of the Federal Subsidy, if any, received by the City will not be included in Net Revenues 
and will be subtracted from the amount of interest payable in calculating Debt Service.
For purposes of preparing the certificate or certificates described in this subsection, the 
City and any Consultant may rely upon the books and records of the City or any financial 
statements prepared by the City which have not been subject to audit by an Independent Certified 
Public Accountant if audited financial statements for the particular Calculation Period selected by 
the City are not available.
(f)
For purposes of the computations to be made as described in Section 8(e)(ii) above, 
the estimated Net Revenues:
(i)
may take into account any increases in rates and charges which relate to the 
Sewer Enterprise and which have been approved by the City Council of the City, and shall 
take into account any reduction in such rates and charges which have been approved by the 
City Council of the City, which will be effective during the Fiscal Year for which such 
estimate is made; provided that an increase may only be taken into account if such increase 
takes effect during the Fiscal Years contemplated by Section 8(e)(ii); and
(ii)
may take into account an allowance for any estimated increase in such Net 
Revenues from any revenue producing additions or improvements to or extensions of the 
32 of 48

--- page 33 ---
9
3534079.4 044715  AGMT
Sewer Enterprise, to be made with the proceeds of such Additional Parity Obligations or 
with the proceeds of Parity Obligations previously issued, all in an amount equal to the 
estimated additional average annual Net Revenues to be derived from such additions, 
improvements, and extensions during the Fiscal Years contemplated by Section 8(e)(ii); 
and
(iii)
for the Fiscal Years contemplated by Section 8(e)(ii) Maintenance and 
Operation Costs shall initially be deemed to be equal to such costs for the 12 consecutive 
months immediately prior to incurring such Additional Parity Obligations, but adjusted if 
deemed necessary by the City or a Consultant, as applicable, for any increased Maintenance 
and Operations Costs which are, in the judgment of the City or a Consultant, as applicable, 
essential to maintaining and operating the Sewer Enterprise and which will occur during 
the Fiscal Years contemplated by Section 8(e)(ii).
Section 9.
Issuance of Subordinate Obligations.
(a)
The City may, at any time or from time to time, issue Subordinated Obligations 
without satisfying the requirements of Section 8(e) for any purpose in connection with the Sewer 
Enterprise, including, without limitation, the financing of a part of the cost of acquisition and 
construction of any additions to or improvements of the Sewer Enterprise or the refunding of any 
Subordinated Obligations or Outstanding Parity Obligations (or portions thereof). Such 
Subordinated Obligations shall be payable out of amounts in the Sewer Revenue Fund as may from 
time to time be available therefor, provided that any such payment shall be, and shall be expressed 
to be, subordinate and junior in all respects to the payment of such Parity Obligations as may be 
Outstanding from time to time, including Parity Obligations issued after the issuance of such 
Subordinated Obligations.
(b)
The resolution, indenture or other instrument authorizing the issuance of 
Subordinated Obligations shall contain provisions (which shall be binding on all owners of such 
Subordinated Obligations) not more favorable to the owners of such Subordinated Obligations 
than the following:
(i)
In the event of any insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings, and any 
receivership, liquidation, reorganization, or other similar proceedings in connection 
therewith, relative to the City or to its creditors, as such, or to its property, and in the event 
of any proceedings for voluntary liquidation, dissolution or other winding up of the City, 
whether or not involving insolvency or bankruptcy, the owners of all Outstanding Parity 
Obligations shall be entitled to receive payment in full of all principal and interest due on 
all such Parity Obligations in accordance with the provisions of the Issuing Instrument 
authorizing the issuance of such Parity Obligations before the owners of the Subordinated 
Obligations are entitled to receive any payment from the Sewer Revenue Fund on account 
of principal (and premium, if any) or interest upon the Subordinated Obligations.
(ii)
In the event that any Subordinated Obligation is declared due and payable 
before its expressed maturity because of the occurrence of an event of default (under 
circumstances when the provisions of (i) above shall not be applicable), the owners of all 
Parity Obligations Outstanding at the time such Subordinated Obligation so becomes due 
33 of 48

--- page 34 ---
10
3534079.4 044715  AGMT
and payable because of such event of default, shall be entitled to receive payment in full of 
all principal and interest on all such Parity Obligations before the owners of such 
Subordinated Obligation are entitled to receive any accelerated payment from the Sewer 
Revenue Fund of principal (and premium, if any) or interest upon such Subordinated 
Obligation.
(iii)
If any default with respect to any Outstanding Parity Obligation shall have 
occurred and be continuing (under circumstances when the provisions of (i) above shall 
not be applicable), the owners of all Outstanding Parity Obligations shall be entitled to 
receive payment in full of all principal and interest on all such Parity Obligations as the 
same become due and payable before the owners of the Subordinated Obligations are 
entitled to receive, subject to the provisions of (v) below, any payment from the Sewer 
Revenue Fund of principal (and premium, if any) or interest upon the Subordinated 
Obligations.
(iv)
The WIFIA Lender shall not be prejudiced in its right to enforce 
subordination of the Subordinated Obligations by any act or failure to act on the part of the 
City.
(v)
The Subordinated Obligations may provide that the provisions (i), (ii), (iii) 
and (iv) above are solely for the purpose of defining the relative rights of the WIFIA Lender 
and the owners of all other Outstanding Parity Obligations on the one hand, and the owners 
of Subordinated Obligations on the other hand, and that nothing therein shall impair, as 
between the City and the owners of the Subordinated Obligations, the obligation of the 
City, which may be unconditional and absolute, to pay to the owners of such Subordinated 
Obligations the principal thereof and premium, if any, and interest thereon in accordance 
with their terms, nor shall anything therein prevent the owners of the Subordinated 
Obligations from exercising all remedies otherwise permitted by applicable law or 
thereunder upon default thereunder, subject to the rights under (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) above 
of the owners of Outstanding Parity Obligations to receive payment from the Sewer 
Revenue Fund otherwise payable or deliverable to the owners of the Subordinated 
Obligations; and the Subordinated Obligations may provide that, insofar as a trustee, fiscal 
agent, or paying agent for such Subordinated Obligations is concerned, the foregoing 
provisions shall not prevent the application by such trustee, fiscal agent, or paying agent 
of any moneys deposited with such trustee, fiscal agent, or paying agent for the purpose of 
the payment of or on account of the principal (and premium, if any) and interest on such 
Subordinated Obligations if such trustee, fiscal agent, or paying agent did not have 
knowledge at the time of such application that such payment was prohibited by the 
foregoing provisions.
(c)
Any Subordinated Obligations may have such rank or priority with respect to any 
other Subordinated Obligations as may be provided in the resolution, indenture, or other 
instrument, authorizing the issuance or incurrence, or securing of such Subordinated Obligations 
and may contain such other provisions as are not in conflict with the provisions of this Agreement 
or the WIFIA Loan Agreement.
34 of 48

--- page 35 ---
11
3534079.4 044715  AGMT
Section 10.
Operation and Insurance of the Sewer Enterprise.
The City shall operate, maintain, and insure the Jointly Owned Facilities in accordance 
with the Construction/Operation JPA Agreement.
The City covenants and agrees to operate the Sewer Enterprise in an efficient and 
economical manner and to operate, maintain, and preserve the Sewer Enterprise in good repair and 
working order. The City shall at all times maintain with responsible insurers all such insurance on 
the Sewer Enterprise as is customarily maintained with respect to works and properties of like 
character against accident to, loss of or damage to the Sewer Enterprise. The City shall also 
maintain, with responsible insurers, worker’s compensation insurance and insurance against public 
liability and property damage to the extent reasonably necessary to protect the City, the Authority 
and the WIFIA Lender. With the prior written consent of the WIFIA Lender, the City may provide 
for the insurance requirements herein through a program of self-insurance. 
Section 11.
Records and Accounts.  The City shall keep proper books of record and 
accounts of the Sewer Enterprise in which complete and correct entries are made of all transactions 
relating to the Sewer Enterprise. Said books shall, upon prior written request, be subject to the 
reasonable inspection of the Authority and the WIFIA Lender, or their representatives authorized 
in writing, upon not less than two business days’ prior notice to the City. The City shall cause the 
books and accounts of the Sewer Enterprise to be audited annually by an Independent Accountant 
not more than nine months after the close of each Fiscal Year, and shall make a copy of such report 
available for inspection by the Authority and the WIFIA Lender. Such report may be part of a 
combined financial audit or report covering all or part of the City’s finances.
Section 12.
Establishment and Maintenance of Rate Stabilization Fund.  The City 
shall maintain and hold a separate fund to be known as the “Rate Stabilization Fund.” From time 
to time the City may deposit in the Rate Stabilization Fund from money in the Sewer Revenue 
Fund such amounts as the City shall determine, provided that deposits into the Rate Stabilization 
Fund for each Fiscal Year may only be made (a) in accordance with the priority of application set 
forth in Section 4 above and (b) until (but not after) one hundred eighty (180) days following the 
end of such Fiscal Year. The City may withdraw amounts from the Rate Stabilization Fund only 
for transfer to the Sewer Revenue Fund for inclusion in Revenues for any Fiscal Year, such 
withdrawals to be made until (but not after) one hundred eighty (180) days after the end of such 
Fiscal Year. All interest or other earnings upon deposits in the Rate Stabilization Fund shall be 
withdrawn therefrom and accounted for as Revenues. Amounts in the Rate Stabilization Fund are 
not pledged to the Authority Bond Payments or any Parity Obligation.
Section 13.
Events of Default. 
(a)
If an Event of Default under and as defined in the WIFIA Loan Agreement shall 
have occurred, then an "Event of Default" shall have occurred hereunder, and the Authority shall 
immediately notify the WIFIA Lender of such Event of Default and shall follow any written 
directions of the WIFIA Lender, which may include a direction to declare the entire principal 
amount of the unpaid Authority Bond Payments and the accrued interest thereon to be due and 
payable immediately, and upon any such declaration the same shall become immediately due and 
payable, anything contained herein to the contrary notwithstanding; provided that the unpaid 
35 of 48

--- page 36 ---
12
3534079.4 044715  AGMT
Authority Bond Payments shall automatically become due and payable without the action of the 
Authority or any other person if the unpaid principal amount of the WIFIA Loan shall have become 
immediately due and payable. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, the 
Authority shall not have the right to (i) accelerate the Authority Bond Payments or (ii) exercise 
any other rights or remedies hereunder following the occurrence of an Event of Default in each 
case without the prior written direction of the WIFIA Lender.
(b)
Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, the Authority shall have the right (but 
only following the prior written direction of the WIFIA Lender):
(i)
by mandamus or other action or proceeding or suit at law or in equity to 
enforce its rights against the City or any director, officer or employee thereof, and to 
compel the City or any such director, officer or employee to perform and carry out its or 
his duties under the law and the agreements and covenants required to be performed by it 
or him or her contained herein;
(ii)
by suit in equity to enjoin any acts or things which are unlawful or violate 
the rights of the Authority;
(iii)
by suit in equity upon the happening of an Event of Default to require the 
City and its directors, officers and employees to account as the trustee of an express trust 
for the benefit of the WIFIA Lender as assignee of the Authority pursuant to the WIFIA 
Loan Agreement; or
(iv)
to apply the Default Rate (as defined in the WIFIA Loan Agreement) to the 
unpaid balance of the Authority Bond Payments.
(c)
Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, the WIFIA Lender, as assignee of the 
Authority pursuant to the WIFIA Loan Agreement, shall be entitled and empowered to institute 
any actions or proceedings at law or in equity against the City for the collection of any sums due 
to the Authority from the City and unpaid hereunder, and may prosecute any such judgment or 
final decree against the City and collect in the manner provided by law the moneys adjudged or 
decreed to be payable, may take such other actions at law or in equity as may appear necessary or 
desirable to collect all amounts payable by the City to the Authority under this Agreement then 
due and thereafter to become due, or to enforce performance and observance of any obligation, 
agreement or covenant of the City under this Agreement.
Section 14.
Cooperation with WIFIA Bond Issuance.  The City agrees that it will 
execute and deliver any and all such closing certificates, agreements, instruments, or other 
assurances as may be reasonably requested by the Authority to complete the issuance and sale of 
the WIFIA Bond.
Section 15.
Scope of this Agreement.  This Agreement does not obligate the City to 
make any payments in respect of any issue of bonds other than the WIFIA Bond. In the event the 
Authority issues an additional series of bonds, notes or other obligations in accordance with the 
Joint Powers Agreement to provide financing for eligible wastewater projects, the City may (but 
is not obligated to) determine to raise its portion of the costs thereof by participating in the issuance 
of such bonds, notes or other obligations, and in such event the City may (but is not obligated to) 
36 of 48

--- page 37 ---
13
3534079.4 044715  AGMT
enter into an additional agreement with the Authority to obligate the City to pay and secure the 
payment of its obligations in respect thereof. Such additional obligations of the City, if any, may 
(but are not required to) be issued as Parity Obligations upon compliance with the conditions set 
forth in Section 8; in that event, but only in that event, all references in this Agreement to “Parity 
Obligations” will apply to such additional obligations of the City.
Section 16.
Amendment.  The Authority and the City may at any time amend or modify 
any of the provisions of this Agreement, but only with the prior written consent of the WIFIA 
Lender.
Section 17.
Governing Law.  This Agreement will be construed in accordance with and 
governed by the laws of the State of California.
Section 18.
Assignment; Binding Effect.  This Agreement and any rights hereunder 
may be assigned by the Authority, as a whole or in part, to the WIFIA Lender without the necessity 
of obtaining the prior consent of the City. Subject to the foregoing sentence, neither the rights or 
obligations of the Authority or the City hereunder nor any interest herein may be assigned or 
delegated without the prior written consent of the WIFIA Lender. This Agreement inures to the 
benefit of and is binding upon the Authority, the City and their respective successors and permitted 
assigns, subject, however, to the limitations contained herein.
Section 19.
Severability of Invalid Provisions.  If any one or more of the provisions 
contained in this Agreement are for any reason held to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any 
respect, then such provision or provisions will be deemed severable from the remaining provisions 
contained in this Agreement and such invalidity, illegality, or unenforceability will not affect any 
other provision of this Agreement, and this Agreement will be construed as if such invalid or illegal 
or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein. The Authority and the City each 
hereby declares that it would have entered into this Agreement and each and every other Section, 
paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase hereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more Sections, 
paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this Agreement may be held illegal, invalid, or 
unenforceable.
Section 20.
Payment on Non-Business Days.  Whenever any payment is required to 
be made hereunder on a day which is not a business day, such payment will be made on the 
immediately following business day.
Section 21.
Execution of Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed in any 
number of counterparts, each of which will for all purposes be deemed to be an original and all of 
which together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 22.
Third Party Beneficiary.  The WIFIA Lender is hereby made a third party 
beneficiary hereof and is entitled to the benefits of this Agreement with the same force and effect 
as if the WIFIA Lender were a party hereto.
[Remainder of page intentionally left blank.  Signatures on next page]
37 of 48

--- page 38 ---
14
3534079.4 044715  AGMT
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Authority and the City have caused this Agreement to be 
executed in their respective names by their duly authorized officers, all as of the date first above 
written.
SAN MATEO-FOSTER CITY PUBLIC 
FINANCING AUTHORITY
By: 
Richard Lee
Treasurer-Auditor-Controller
ATTEST:
By: 
Patrice Olds
Secretary
CITY OF SAN MATEO
By: 
Richard Lee
Finance Director
ATTEST:
By: 
Patrice Olds
City Clerk
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
DATED: __________, 2020
By: 
Shawn Mason, Esq.
City Attorney
[Financing Agreement of the Authority and the City]
38 of 48

--- page 39 ---
3534079.4 044715  AGMT
APPENDIX A
DEFINED TERMS
“Accreted Value” means, with respect to any Capital Appreciation Obligation and as of 
any date, the Initial Amount thereof plus the interest accrued thereon from its delivery date, 
compounded at the approximate interest rate with respect to such Capital Appreciation Obligation 
specified in or pursuant to the Issuing Instrument authorizing the issuance of such Capital 
Appreciation Obligation on each date specified therein. The applicable Accreted Value at any date 
will be the amount set forth in the Accreted Value Table as of such date, if such date is a 
compounding date, and if not, will be determined by straight-line interpolation with reference to 
such Accreted Value Table.
“Accreted Value Table” means, with respect to Capital Appreciation Obligations, the table 
denominated as such in, and to which reference is made in, the Issuing Instrument authorizing the 
issuance of such Capital Appreciation Obligations.
“Additional Parity Obligations” means Parity Obligations issued or incurred on or after the 
date hereof for the purpose of paying all or a portion of the costs of the Sewer Enterprise, including, 
without limitation, the financing of all or a part of the cost of acquisition and construction of any 
additions to or improvements of the Sewer Enterprise, which Parity Obligations satisfy the 
conditions set forth in Section 8(e).
“Authority Bond Payment Date” means the fifth (5th) business day prior to each Payment 
Date (as defined in the WIFIA Loan Agreement).
“Authority Bond Payments” means the amounts paid by the City under this Agreement 
representing the principal and interest due with respect to the WIFIA Bond, as such payments are 
set forth in Appendix B hereto. “Authorized Representative” means the City Manager, the Finance 
Director or any other officer of the City duly authorized to act as an Authorized Representative for 
purposes of the Financing Agreement by resolution of the City Council of the City or written 
authorization of the City Manager or the Finance Director.
 “Balloon Indebtedness” means, with respect to any Series of Parity Obligations, twenty-
five percent (25%) or more of the principal of which matures on the same date or within a 12-
month period (with Sinking Fund Installments on Term Obligations deemed to be payments of 
matured principal), that portion of such Series of Obligations which matures on such date or within 
such 12 month period. For purposes of this definition, the principal amount maturing on any date 
shall be reduced by the amount of such indebtedness which is required, by the documents 
governing such indebtedness, to be amortized by prepayment or redemption prior to its stated 
maturity date.
“Calculation Period” means, with respect to any certificate to be provided pursuant to 
Section 8(e), any twelve consecutive month period within the eighteen consecutive months ending 
immediately prior to the issuance of the Additional Parity Obligations to which such certificate 
relates.
39 of 48

--- page 40 ---
A-2
3534079.4 044715  AGMT
“Capital Appreciation Obligations” means any Parity Obligations the interest on which is 
compounded and not scheduled to be paid until the maturity or prior redemption of such 
Obligations.
“Commercial Paper Program” means a program of short-term Parity Obligations having 
the characteristics of commercial paper in that such Parity Obligations have a stated maturity not 
later than 270 days from their date of issue and that maturing Obligations of such program may be 
paid with the proceeds of renewal short-term Obligations.
“Consultant” means a consultant, consulting firm, engineer, architect, engineering firm, 
architectural firm, accountant, or accounting firm retained by the City to perform acts, prepare 
certificates or otherwise carry out the duties provided for a Consultant in this Agreement. Such 
consultant, consulting firm, engineer, architect, engineering firm, or architectural firm shall be 
nationally recognized within its profession for works of the character required. Such accountants 
or accounting firm shall be Independent Certified Public Accountants licensed to practice in the 
State of California.
“Credit Provider” means any municipal bond insurance company, bank, or other financial 
institution or organization which is performing in all material respects its obligations under any 
Credit Support Instrument for some or all of the Parity Obligations.
“Credit Provider Reimbursement Obligations” means obligations of the City to pay from 
the Sewer Revenue Fund amounts due under a Credit Support Agreement, including without 
limitation amounts advanced by a Credit Provider pursuant to a Credit Support Instrument as credit 
support or liquidity for Parity Obligations and the interest with respect thereto.
“Credit Support Agreement” means, with respect to any Credit Support Instrument, the 
agreement or agreements (which may be the Credit Support Instrument itself) between the City 
and the applicable Credit Provider, as originally executed or as it may from time to time be 
replaced, supplemented or amended in accordance with the provisions thereof, providing for the 
reimbursement to the Credit Provider for payments under such Credit Support Instrument, and the 
interest thereon, and includes any subsequent agreement pursuant to which a substitute Credit 
Support Instrument is provided, together with any related pledge agreement, security agreement 
or other security document.
“Credit Support Instrument” means a policy of insurance, a letter of credit, a stand-by 
purchase agreement, revolving credit agreement, or other credit arrangement pursuant to which a 
Credit Provider provides credit or liquidity support with respect to the payment of interest, 
principal or the purchase price of any Parity Obligations.
“Debt Service” means, for any Fiscal Year, the sum of (a) the interest payable during such 
Fiscal Year on all Outstanding Parity Obligations, assuming that all Outstanding Serial Parity 
Obligations are retired as scheduled and that all Outstanding Term Parity Obligations are redeemed 
or paid from Sinking Fund Installments as scheduled, (b) that portion of the principal amount of 
all Outstanding Serial Parity Obligations maturing on each principal payment date which falls in 
such Fiscal Year, including the Final Compounded Amount of any Capital Appreciation 
Obligations which are Series Parity Obligations, (c) that portion of the principal amount of all 
40 of 48

--- page 41 ---
A-3
3534079.4 044715  AGMT
Outstanding Term Parity Obligations required to be redeemed or paid from Sinking Fund 
Installments becoming due during such Fiscal Year (together with the redemption premiums, if 
any, thereon), including the Accreted Value of any Capital Appreciation Obligations which are 
Term Parity Obligations; provided that, for purposes of calculating Debt Service, any Federal 
Subsidy to be received by the City during such Fiscal Year shall be subtracted from such sum; and 
provided further that the following adjustments and assumptions shall be made:
(a)
in determining the amount of Debt Service constituting principal due in each Fiscal 
Year, principal payments with respect to Parity Obligations which are or upon issuance will be, 
part of a Commercial Paper Program, but which would not constitute Balloon Indebtedness, shall 
be treated as if such Parity Obligations were to be amortized with substantially level annual Debt 
Service payments over a term of 40 years commencing on the date the calculation of Debt Service 
is made;
(b)
if all or any portion or portions of the Parity Obligations constitute, or upon issuance 
would constitute, Balloon Indebtedness, then, for purposes of determining Debt Service, each 
maturity which constitutes, or upon issuance would constitute, Balloon Indebtedness shall be 
treated as if it were to be amortized with substantially level annual Debt Service payments over a 
term of 40 years commencing on the date which is the first anniversary of the initial issuance of 
such Parity Obligations, calculated based on a fixed rate equal to the rate at which the City could 
borrow for such 40-year period, as certified by an independent municipal advisor engaged by the 
City;
(c)
if any Outstanding Parity Obligations constitute Tax-Exempt Variable Rate 
Indebtedness (except to the extent paragraph (g) of this definition applies), the interest rate on such 
Parity Obligations for any period as to which such interest rate has not been established shall be 
assumed to be 110% of the daily average interest rate on such Parity Obligations during the 12 
months ending with the month preceding the date of calculation, or such shorter period that such 
Parity Obligations shall have been Outstanding ;
(d)
if any Outstanding Parity Obligations constitute Variable Rate Indebtedness which 
is not Tax-Exempt (except to the extent paragraph (g) of this definition applies), the interest rate 
on such Parity Obligations for any period as to which such interest rate has not been established 
shall be assumed to be 110% of the average One Month USD LIBOR Rate during the calendar 
quarter preceding the calendar quarter in which the calculation of Debt Service is made or if the 
One Month USD LIBOR Rate is not available for such period, another similar rate or index 
selected by the City;
(e)
if Additional Parity Obligations proposed to be issued will be Tax-Exempt Variable 
Rate Indebtedness (except to the extent subsection (h) of this definition applies), then the interest 
rate on such Additional Parity Obligations shall be assumed to be 110% of the average SIFMA 
Index during the calendar quarter preceding the calendar quarter in which the calculation of Debt 
Service is made, or if that index is no longer published, seventy-five percent (75%) of the One 
Month USD LIBOR Rate, or if the One Month USD LIBOR Rate is not available, another similar 
rate or index selected by the City;
41 of 48

--- page 42 ---
A-4
3534079.4 044715  AGMT
(f)
if Additional Parity Obligations proposed to be issued will be Variable Rate 
Indebtedness which is not Tax-Exempt (except to the extent subsection (h) of this definition 
applies) then the interest rate on such Additional Parity Obligations shall be assumed to be 110% 
of the average One Month USD LIBOR Rate during the calendar quarter preceding the calendar 
quarter in which the calculation is made, or if the One Month USD LIBOR Rate is not available 
for such period, another similar rate or index selected by the City;
(g)
if a Qualified Swap Agreement has been entered into in connection with any 
Outstanding Parity Obligations, the interest rate on such Outstanding Parity Obligations for each 
Fiscal Year or portion thereof during which payments are to be exchanged by the parties under 
such Qualified Swap Agreement shall be determined for purposes of calculating Debt Service by 
adding: (1) the amount of Debt Service paid or to be paid by the City as interest on the Outstanding 
Parity Obligations during such Fiscal Year or portion thereof (determined as provided in paragraph 
(c) or (d) of this definition, as applicable, if such Outstanding Parity Obligations constitute 
Variable Rate Indebtedness) and (2) the net amount (which may be a negative amount) paid or to 
be paid by the City under the Qualified Swap Agreement (after giving effect to payments made 
and received, and to be made and received, by the City under the Qualified Swap Agreement) 
during such Fiscal Year or portion thereof, and for this purpose any variable rate of interest agreed 
to be paid under the Qualified Swap Agreement shall be deemed to be the rate at which the related 
Outstanding Parity Obligations constituting Variable Rate Indebtedness is assumed to bear 
interest;
(h)
if a Qualified Swap Agreement has been entered into by the City with respect to 
any Additional Parity Obligations proposed to be issued, the interest on such proposed Additional 
Parity Obligations for each Fiscal Year or portion thereof during which payments are to be 
exchanged under the Qualified Swap Agreement shall be determined for purposes of calculating 
Debt Service by adding: (1) the amount of Debt Service to be paid by the City as interest on such 
Additional Parity Obligations during such Fiscal Year or portion thereof (determined as provided 
in paragraph (e) or (f) of this definition, as applicable, if such Additional Parity Obligations are to 
constitute Variable Rate Indebtedness) and (2) the net amount (which may be a negative amount) 
to be paid by the City under the Qualified Swap Agreement (after giving effect to payments to be 
made and received by the City under the Qualified Swap Agreement) during such Fiscal Year or 
portion thereof, and for this purpose any variable rate of interest agreed to be paid under the 
Qualified Swap Agreement shall be deemed to be the rate at which the related Additional Parity 
Obligations which are to constitute Variable Rate Indebtedness shall be assumed to bear interest; 
and
(i)
if any Parity Obligations are, or upon issuance will be, Paired Obligations, the 
interest rate thereon shall be the resulting linked rate or effective fixed rate to be paid with respect 
to such Paired Obligations.
“Event of Default” has the meaning provided in Section 13 of this Agreement.
“Federal Subsidy” means any payment or tax credit by the United States of America 
established in connection with any Obligation.
42 of 48

--- page 43 ---
A-5
3534079.4 044715  AGMT
“Final Compounded Amount” means the Accreted Value of any Capital Appreciation 
Obligation on its maturity date.
“Fiscal Year” means any twelve-month period extending from July 1 in one calendar year 
to June 30 of the succeeding calendar year, both dates inclusive, or any other 12-month period 
selected and designated by the City as its official fiscal year period.
“Generally Accepted Accounting Principles” means generally accepted accounting 
principles applied on a consistent basis set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the 
Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants applicable 
to a government-owned utility applying all statements and interpretations issued by the 
Governmental Accounting Standards Board and statements and pronouncements of the Financial 
Accounting Standards Board which are not in conflict with the statements and interpretations 
issued by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other 
entity as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, that are applicable 
to the circumstances as of the date of determination.
“Independent Accountant” means any certified public accountant or firm of certified public 
accountants appointed and paid by the City, and who, or each of whom (a) is in fact independent 
and not under domination of the City; (b) does not have any substantial interest, direct or indirect, 
in the City; and (c) is not connected with the City as an officer or employee of the City but who 
may be regularly retained to make annual or other audits of the books of or reports to the City.
“Initial Amount” means the Accreted Value of a Capital Appreciation Obligation on its 
date of issuance and delivery to the original purchaser thereof.
“Issuing Instrument” means any indenture, trust agreement, or other instrument or 
agreement under which Obligations are issued.
“Maintenance and Operation Costs” means the reasonable and necessary costs of 
maintaining and operating the Sewer Enterprise, calculated in accordance with Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles, including (without limitation) the reasonable expenses of management and 
repair and other expenses necessary to maintain and preserve the Sewer Enterprise in good repair 
and working order, and reasonable amounts for administration, overhead, wages of employees, 
insurance, taxes (if any), and other similar costs or charges required to be paid by the City to 
comply with the law or terms of this Financing Agreement or Parity Obligations or other 
Obligations, such as compensation of the trustee, and fees and expenses payable to any Credit 
Provider (other than in repayment of a Credit Provider Reimbursement Obligation), and accountant 
and engineering fees, but excluding in all cases (a) depreciation and obsolescence charges or 
reserves therefor, amortization of intangibles, or other bookkeeping entries of a similar nature, 
(b) all costs paid from the proceeds of taxes received by the City, and (c) all interest charges and 
charges for the payment of principal, or amortization, of bonded or other indebtedness of the City, 
and all payments made pursuant to any Qualified Swap Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, 
“Maintenance and Operation Costs” includes amounts payable for operation and maintenance 
under the Construction/Operation JPA Agreement, but does not include payments made by the 
City under the Construction/Operation JPA Agreement or the Joint Powers Agreement in respect 
of debt service on notes, bonds or other obligations issued by the Authority to finance a project.
43 of 48

--- page 44 ---
A-6
3534079.4 044715  AGMT
“Maximum Annual Debt Service” means the greatest total Debt Service payable in any 
Fiscal Year during the period commencing with the next ensuing Fiscal Year and terminating with 
the Fiscal Year in which payments are due under the last Outstanding Parity Obligations.
“Net Revenues” for any Fiscal Year means the sum of (a) Revenues for such Fiscal Year 
plus (b) the amounts, if any, withdrawn from the Rate Stabilization Fund and deposited into the 
Sewer Revenue Fund in accordance with this Agreement for treatment as Revenues for such Fiscal 
Year, less the sum of (i) all Maintenance and Operation Costs for such Fiscal Year and (ii) the 
amounts, if any, withdrawn by the City from the Sewer Revenue Fund in accordance with this 
Agreement during such Fiscal Year for deposit in the Rate Stabilization Fund.
“Obligations” means the following obligations payable from or secured by Net Revenues: 
(a) obligations with respect to borrowed money and includes loans or other evidences of 
indebtedness, installment purchase payments under any contract, and lease payments under any 
financing or capital lease (determined to be such in accordance with Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles), which are payable from the Sewer Revenue Fund, (b) obligations to 
replenish any debt service reserve fund with respect to obligations of the City described in (a) of 
this definition; (c) obligations secured by or payable from any of obligations of the City described 
in (a) of this definition; (d) obligations payable from the Sewer Revenue Fund and entered into in 
connection with, relating to, or otherwise serving as a hedge with respect to, an obligation 
described in clauses (a), (b) or (c) of this definition under (1) any contract providing for payments 
based on levels of, or changes in, interest rates, currency exchange rates, stock, or other indices, 
(2) any contract to exchange cash flows or a series of payments, or (3) any contract to hedge 
payment, currency, rate spread, or similar exposure, including but not limited to interest rate swap 
agreements and interest rate cap agreements; and (e) Credit Provider Reimbursement Obligations.
“One Month USD LIBOR Rate” means the British Banker’s Association average of 
interbank offered rates in the London market for United States dollar deposits for a one month 
period as reported in the Wall Street Journal or, if not reported in such newspaper, as reported in 
such other source as may be selected by the City.
“Outstanding” means any Obligation that has not been discharged under the terms of the 
Issuing Instrument.
“Paired Obligations” shall mean any Series (or portion thereof) of Parity Obligations 
designated as Paired Obligations in the Issuing Instrument authorizing the issuance thereof, which 
are simultaneously issued (a) the principal of which is of equal amount maturing and to be 
redeemed (or cancelled after acquisition thereof) on the same dates and in the same amounts, and 
(b) the interest rates which, taken together, result in an irrevocably fixed interest rate obligation of 
the City for the terms of such Paired Obligations.
“Parity Obligations” means (a) the Authority Bond Payments, (b) the Existing Obligations, 
and (c) Obligations that are payable from Net Revenues on a parity with the payment of the 
Authority Bond Payments and that satisfy the applicable conditions of Section 8, including 
payments due under Qualified Swap Agreements.
44 of 48

--- page 45 ---
A-7
3534079.4 044715  AGMT
“Qualified Swap Agreement” means a contract or agreement, payable from Net Revenues 
on a parity with the payment of Parity Obligations and satisfying the conditions of Section 8(a), 
intended to place Parity Obligations or the applicable investments on the interest rate, currency, 
cash flow, or other basis desired by the City, including, without limitation, any interest rate swap 
agreement, currency swap agreement, forward payment conversion agreement or futures contract, 
any contract providing for payments based on levels of, or changes in, interest rates, currency 
exchange rates, stock or other indices, any contract to exchange cash flows or a series of payments, 
or any contract, including, without limitation, an interest rate floor or cap, or an option, put or call, 
to hedge payment, currency, rate spread or similar exposure, between the City and a counterparty.
“Rate Stabilization Fund” means the rate stabilization fund of the City maintained pursuant 
to Section 12 of this Agreement.
“Rebate Fund” means the fund of the City established pursuant to Section 5.07 of the 
Master Indenture.
“Refunding Parity Obligations” means Parity Obligations issued for the purpose of 
refunding all or any portion of the Outstanding Parity Obligations and satisfying the conditions set 
forth in Section 8.
“Revenues” means all charges received for, and all other income and receipts derived by 
the City from the ownership and operation of the Sewer Enterprise or arising from the Sewer 
Enterprise, including the proceeds of any Federal Subsidy and all rates, fees, and user charges 
received by the City for Sewer Service and all connection charges, impact fees, standby charges, 
or similar fees or charges relating to the Sewer Enterprise (including without limitation all charges 
received from other public agencies pursuant to contracts with the City for Sewer Services), 
together with any receipts derived from the sale of any property pertaining to the Sewer Enterprise 
or incidental to the operation of the Sewer Enterprise, together with all interest, profits, and other 
income derived from the investment of moneys in any fund or account established hereunder (other 
than the Rebate Fund), but exclusive of any moneys derived from refundable deposits made to 
establish credit and advances, or contributions in aid of construction, or other payments of a similar 
nature.
“Serial Obligations” means Obligations for which no Sinking Fund Installments are 
established.
“Serial Parity Obligations” means Serial Obligations that are Parity Obligations.
“Series” means Obligations issued at the same time or sharing some other common term 
or characteristic and designated in the Issuing Instrument pursuant to which such Obligations were 
issued as a separate issue or series of Obligations.
“Sewer Enterprise” means the whole and each and every part of the existing sewer system 
of the City comprising all facilities for the collection, treatment and disposal of sewage, waste and 
storm water and the operation of a water quality control plant, together with all additions, 
betterments, extensions and improvements thereto or any part thereof hereafter acquired or 
constructed.
45 of 48

--- page 46 ---
A-8
3534079.4 044715  AGMT
“Sewer Revenue Fund” means the fund or funds established and held by the City with 
respect to the Sewer Enterprise for the receipt and deposit of Gross Revenues.
“Sewer Service” means the water reclamation and sewage collection, treatment, and 
disposal service made available or provided by the Sewer Enterprise.
“SIFMA Index” means The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association Index 
as of the most recent date for which such index was published or such other weekly, high-grade 
index comprised of seven-day, Tax-Exempt variable rate demand notes produced by Municipal 
Market Data, or its successor, or as otherwise designated by The Securities Industry and Financial 
Markets Association, provided, that, if such index is no longer produced by Municipal Market 
Data, or its successors, then “SIFMA Index” shall mean such other reasonably comparable index 
selected by the City.
“Sinking Fund Installment” means, with respect to any Term Parity Obligations, each 
amount so designated for such Term Parity Obligations in the Issuing Instrument authorizing the 
issuance of such Parity Obligations requiring payments by the City from the Sewer Revenue Fund 
to be applied to the retirement of such Parity Obligations on and prior to the stated maturity date 
thereof.
“Subordinated Obligation” means any Obligation which is expressly made subordinate and 
junior in right of payment from the Sewer Revenue Fund and right of security to the Parity 
Obligations and which complies with the provisions of Section 9 of this Agreement.
“Tax Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as in effect on the date hereof or 
(except as otherwise referenced herein) as it may be amended to apply to obligations issued on the 
date hereof, together with applicable proposed, temporary, and final regulations promulgated, and 
applicable official public guidance published, under said Code.
“Tax-Exempt” means, with respect to interest on any obligations of a state or local 
government, that such interest is excluded from the gross income of the holders thereof (other than 
any holder who is a “substantial user” of facilities financed with such obligations or a “related 
person” within the meaning of Section 147(a) of the Tax Code) for federal income tax purposes, 
whether or not such interest is includable as an item of tax preference or otherwise includable 
directly or indirectly for purposes of calculating other tax liabilities, including any alternative 
minimum tax or environmental tax under the Tax Code.
“Term Obligations” means Obligations that are payable on or before their specified 
maturity dates from Sinking Fund Installments established for that purpose and calculated to retire 
such Obligations on or before their specified maturity dates.
“Term Parity Obligations” means Term Obligations that are Parity Obligations.
“Variable Rate Indebtedness” means any portion of indebtedness evidenced by Parity 
Obligations the interest rate on which is not established at the time of incurrence of such 
indebtedness and has not, at some subsequent date, been established at a rate which is not subject 
to fluctuation or subsequent adjustment, excluding Paired Obligations. 
46 of 48

--- page 47 ---
A-9
3534079.4 044715  AGMT
“WIFIA Debt Service Account” means the debt service account of the Authority 
established and maintained pursuant to the WIFIA Loan Agreement for the purpose of depositing 
the Authority Bond Payments and paying the debt service on the WIFIA Bond.
“WIFIA Reserve Fund” means the reserve fund of the Authority established and 
maintained to the extent required pursuant to the WIFIA Loan Agreement into which the City shall 
make deposits as specified in the WIFIA Loan Agreement upon the occurrence of a WIFIA 
Reserve Funding Trigger Event, as such term is defined in the WIFIA Loan Agreement.
47 of 48

--- page 48 ---
B-1
3534079.4 044715  AGMT
APPENDIX B
AUTHORITY BOND PAYMENT SCHEDULE
(the payment dates shown on the attached payment schedule reflect the due dates 
on the WIFIA Loan and the Authority Bond Payments are due not later than the fifth (5th) Business 
Day prior to each such payment date on the WIFIA Loan)
48 of 48