Ring cancels controversial doorbell camera collaboration Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 54°F Saturday, May 30th 2026 Daily News e-Edition Evening e-Edition Home Page Subscriber Services Daily E-Edition Evening E-Edition e-Edition FAQ News Crime and Public Safety Politics Business Health National News World News Photos and Videos Espanol Local News New York News Manhattan Bronx Brooklyn Queens NYC Crime Education New York Politics Sports Sports Yankees Mets Giants Jets Knicks Nets Liberty Rangers Islanders Baseball Basketball Football Hockey Soccer Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Opinion Opinion Editorial Cartoons SNYDE Viva Things To Do Things To Do Best Reviews Fitness Restaurants, Food and Drink Fun and Games Horoscopes Advertise Advertise with Us Classifieds Public Notices Branded Content Paid Partner Content Advertising by Ascend Paid Content by Brandpoint Special Sections About Us Help Center Contact Us Automotive Photo requests, reprints Archives TAG Disclosure Contests Sign up for email newsletters Sign Up National News | Ring cancels controversial doorbell camera… Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on X (Opens in new window) X Subscribe Login Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Sign up for email newsletters Sign Up Subscribe Loading... Search 54°F Saturday, May 30th 2026 Daily News e-Edition Evening e-Edition National News E-Newspaper NYC Crime National News Politics Sports Eats Photos Puzzles & Games Obits Trending: ‘Bigger than football’: Abdul Carter Kennedy Center closure blocked NJ Transit service Daily Horoscope Mitchell Robinson injury Today in history News National News Ring cancels controversial doorbell camera collaboration with Flock Safety Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on X (Opens in new window) X Ring has canceled plans to partner with Flock Safety on a doorbell camera system that critics labeled a privacy concern. (Shutterstock) By Brian Niemietz | bniemietz@nydailynews.com | New York Daily News PUBLISHED: February 13, 2026 at 8:02 PM EST Ring has canceled its plans to partner with Flock Safety on a doorbell camera system that critics have labeled a privacy concern. The Amazon-owned company announced the collaboration with Flock Safety’s platform in October. It said the integration would increase the effectiveness of its “Community Requests” feature , which enables users to “respond to requests for help from local public safety agencies” as they work to collect evidence and investigate crime. Flock Safety is primarily known for its automated license plate readers used by law enforcement to track suspect vehicles . Its other services include drones, gunshot detection and alerts for missing people. Flock has come under fire for its AI surveillance and “spying” technology , which the American Civil Liberties Union says has been “used by ICE to help carry out the Trump administration’s abusive removal program.” The organization also claims that Flock’s system was used by a police officer in Texas to “search nationwide for a woman who’d had a self-administered abortion ,” which is illegal in the state. Ring on Friday assured the public their new collaboration was being shelved. “Following a comprehensive review, we determined the planned Flock Safety integration would require significantly more time and resources than anticipated,” the company said in a statement. “As a result, we have made the joint decision to cancel the planned integration. The integration never launched, so no Ring customer videos were ever sent to Flock Safety.” Ring added that it plans to continue working on products that offer users the ability to share videos with law enforcement if they so choose. “We’ll continue to carefully evaluate future partnerships to ensure they align with our standards for customer trust, safety and privacy,” Ring said. Flock Safety confirmed in a statement that its partnership with Ring was canceled and said no customer videos had been shared. Both companies have denied providing data to ICE. Friday’s announcement follows a controversial Super Bowl commercial that advertised Ring’s “Search Party” feature, which uses AI to cover entire neighborhoods and, among other things, help find lost pets . The ad showed users how punching in a description of a missing pet could signal Ring’s units to work with one another to track down that animal, but it raised a lot of questions on social media. “If they can identify a dog, they can identify you,” one critic wrote on the ad’s YouTube page. “And your kids,” said another. While surveillance technology has sparked debate across the country, particularly in regard to ICE operations, video taken from doorbell cameras have proven useful to investigators. Images retrieved from the home of Savannah Guthrie’s missing mother provided the first big break in a nearly two-week criminal investigation that appeared to have otherwise made no progress. Information later retrieved from another camera a few miles away also piqued the interest of law enforcement. Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Share on X (Opens in new window) X RevContent Feed Most Popular Most Popular Mamdani fires controversial NYC Sheriff Anthony Miranda, appoints whistleblower Edwin Raymond Mamdani fires controversial NYC Sheriff Anthony Miranda, appoints whistleblower Edwin Raymond Three gang members arrested for execution-style killing of Bronx father of four Three gang members arrested for execution-style killing of Bronx father of four FDNY firefighter arrested for punching NYPD cop in unprovoked attack at Queens hospital FDNY firefighter arrested for punching NYPD cop in unprovoked attack at Queens hospital Nearly all musical acts pull out of Trump’s Freedom 250 concert Nearly all musical acts pull out of Trump's Freedom 250 concert Jaxson Dart speaks to Giants about Donald Trump with Abdul Carter absent Jaxson Dart speaks to Giants about Donald Trump with Abdul Carter absent Claude Lemieux’s children speak out after death, reportedly by suicide Claude Lemieux's children speak out after death, reportedly by suicide Abdul Carter shows conviction on Donald Trump while Jaxson Dart dodges Abdul Carter shows conviction on Donald Trump while Jaxson Dart dodges Deadly crash on Queensborough Bridge was caused by rider of potentially illegal scooter Deadly crash on Queensborough Bridge was caused by rider of potentially illegal scooter Cops investigate after 7 men seen exiting Brooklyn manhole in dead of night Cops investigate after 7 men seen exiting Brooklyn manhole in dead of night ‘Alaskan Bush People’ star Matt Brown’s family fear he died by suicide 'Alaskan Bush People' star Matt Brown's family fear he died by suicide More in National News Today in History: May 30, 10 killed in clash between striking steelworkers and police Kenya court suspends US plan for Ebola quarantine facility for Americans Today in History: May 29, first woman races in the Indianapolis 500 6 protesters arrested after clash with ICE officers outside a New Jersey detention center 2026 February 13 Tribune Publishing Chicago Tribune The Morning Call The Daily Press The Virginian Pilot Orlando Sentinel Sun-Sentinel Hartford Courant Studio 1847 Company Info About Us Careers Help Center Manage Web Notifications Place an ad Media Kit Privacy Policy Accessibility Site Map Subscriber Services Archives Subscribe Now Subscriber Terms and Conditions Terms of Service Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection CA Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Copyright 2026 New York Daily News. All rights reserved. The use of any content on this website for the purpose of training artificial intelligence systems, algorithms, machine learning models, text and data mining, or similar use is strictly prohibited without explicit written consent. Close