source: packet.pdf
sha256: 934fa3dfcf352d34189bc93dd4702c68581e05444f3467926ece95ac30a43b1c
pages: 115
ocr_pages: 33
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission
October 12, 2021
7:00 PM
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Ramiro Maldonado, Chair
Margaret Williams, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNMENT CODE 54943(b)(3) / AB 361 (2021) –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE
AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: September 14, 2021
To join via telephone: 408-638-0968
Enter Conference ID: 853 9705 0664 Passcode: 807970
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the Regular meeting of July 27, 2021, August 24, 2021 and September 14, 2021.
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's jurisdiction
that are not on the agenda. Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of 15 minutes
for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's jurisdiction. The
Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the agenda, but shall
refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 of the San Mateo
Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those issues raised at the
public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing. Some public
hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
2.
Alameda de las Pulgas and Portola Drive Cal Water Pump Station Replacement Project – Special Use Permit, Site
Plan and Architectural Review, and Variance (PA-2020-052)

--- page 2 ---
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Special Use Permit, Site Plan and Architectural Review, and Variance for
replacement of an existing Cal Water Pump Station based on the Findings for Approval and subject to the
Conditions of Approval.
NEW BUSINESS
3.
Housing Element Update Process
Receive a status report on the Housing Element Update process.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
4.
2022 Planning Commission Calendar
Adopt the 2022 Planning Commission Meeting Schedule
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting
and can be viewed on the City’s website at www.cityofsanmateo.org.
Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: there are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you will be added to the meeting. All attendees are
muted by default. To speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638- 0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of meeting agenda.
To indicate you want to provide public comment, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations
to participate in this meeting may contact the Planning Division at planning@cityofsanmateo.org or (650) 522-7212 .
Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-5276
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development
MEETING DATE:
October 12, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Regular meeting of July 27, 2021, August 24, 2021 and September 14, 2021.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Regular Meeting Minutes 7.27.2021
Att 2 - Regular Meeting Minutes 8.24.2021
Att 3 – Regular Meeting Minutes 9.14.2021
STAFF CONTACT
Mary Way, Administrative Assistant
mway@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7213

--- page 4 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 6/22/2021
Page 1
COMISSION MEMBERS
Ramiro Maldonado, Chair
Margaret Williams, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Seema Patel
Ellen Mallory
City of San Mateo
Regular Meeting Minutes
Planning Commission
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Tuesday, July 27, 2021
Remote 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER 
This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s Executive Order N-29-
20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the Coronavirus Covid-19 health 
emergency.
 
PLEDGE OF ALLEGENCE
ROLL CALL
Remote: Chair Ramiro Maldonado, Vice-Chair Margaret Williams, and Commissioners John Ebneter, Ellen Mallory, and 
Seema Patel
CEREMONIAL 
Chair Maldonado presented a proclamation commending Commissioner Ellen Mallory for her service on the Planning 
Commission.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Public Comment – Richard Hedges expressed concern that Adam Nugent was not in place as a Commissioner prior to 
the discussion of the land use and circulation alternatives.  City Clerk Patrice Olds noted that Commissioner Mallory’s 
resignation was not effective until July 30, 2021 and that Adam Nugent would not be seated as a Commissioner until 
after he is administered his formal oath of office.
OLD BUSINESS
1.
General Plan Update – Overview of Draft Land Use and Circulation Alternatives
Christina Horrisberger, Community Development Director, introduced both the agenda item and Joanna Jansen, 
Principal with Placeworks, the General Plan Update consultant. Jansen presented an overview of the General Plan 
Update process to-date, including key outreach activities and project milestones. The presentation also provided a 
high-level summary of the circulation and land use alternatives and the purpose of the agenda item before the 
Commission. 
Commissioners asked a clarifying question about residential and commercial growth and how it compares to the 
projections provided by the Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG); expressed concern about the use of 
terms like quality and character in the vision statement because they can have an exclusionary association; asked 
about whether excluding R-1 zones from the General Plan study areas would make the City’s Housing Element non-
compliant; and wondered whether the environmental sustainability language in the vision statement could be 
strengthened.

--- page 5 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 6/22/2021
Page 2
Joanna Jansen continued the presentation, providing an overview of the requested feedback from the Commission 
and the key materials included in the meeting packet. Brian Manford from Nelson\Nygaard, the City’s 
transportation consultant, presented the three circulation alternatives, highlighting the key differences and the 
improvements included in each one. The Commissioners asked questions of staff which included clarification of 
some of the features of the City’s Bike Master Plan, how the City would influence bus rapid transit policy, 
pedestrian connections over 101, and how the circulation alternatives interact with the land use alternatives.
Brian Alexander, Senior Management Analyst, continued the presentation, providing an overview of Study Areas 1-
C, 1-S, 3, and 8. Julia Klein, Principal Planner, provided and overview of Study Areas 1-N, 4, 5, and 7. The 
Commissioners asked questions of staff which included clarification of the City’s obligations in meeting its Regional 
Housing Needs Allocation (RHNA) during the current and future cycles. Linda Ly, Associate Planner, provided an 
overview of Study Areas 2, 6, 9, and 10. The Commissioners asked about the building height allowances at 
Bridgepointe Shopping Center and if/how the alternatives consider sea level rise.
Public Comment – Raayan Mohtashemi provided clarification about the potential for bus rapid transit and asked 
which transportation groups have been consulted throughout the General Plan Update. Laurie Watanuki asked 
about Study Area 4 and expressed a desire to see lower density options in Alternative A and additional housing on 
Amphlett. Adam Loraine stated that the alternatives offer a wide range of options but encouraged staff and 
Commissioners to consider TDM planning in all areas of the City. Kim Diamond, Harvest Properties, expressed 
support for mixed use high-density zoning in the downtown around Caltrain. Karim Sarraf asked a series of 
clarifying questions about zoning, affordable housing, in-person meetings, and opportunities for engagement with 
SAMCAR. Angela Solis, Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County, expressed concerns that R1 zones are 
excluded from the study areas stated that all neighborhoods should participate in providing housing. Edward 
Catlett expressed a desire to ensure that San Mateo work with surrounding jurisdictions on any improvements to 
transit corridors. Salim Damerdji expressed a preference for Alternative C and stated the Commission should 
carefully consider climate change in updating the General Plan. Adam Nugent stated that future affordable 
housing should be focused in high-opportunity areas with walkable access to services and transit. Susan Rowinski 
asked that groceries, pharmacies, and other services be available within a 20 minute walk of housing units in the 
Study Areas. Jordan Grimes expressed concern about the lack of representation at the workshops from renters, in 
particular, and stated there should be more high-density residential designations in close proximity to transit. 
Richard Hedges expressed a desire to see more housing options in the Bridgepointe Shopping Center area.
Staff responded to questions raised during public comment. The Commission asked questions of staff and 
discussion ensued. Some commissioners expressed concerns about the infrastructure needs associated with the 
alternatives; the prevalence of mixed-use developments in the alternatives; displacement; the ability to 
accommodate future RHNA cycles within the alternatives; the representativeness of the feedback received from 
the San Mateo community; how historic buildings would be treated in the General Plan Update process; and the 
creation of sufficient open space in the study areas. Commissioners Patel and Ebneter expressed a desire to see 
higher density options in transit-oriented areas in at least one of the alternatives and also expressed concerns 
about the City meeting its obligations under AB-686. Most commissioners reiterated the importance of 
environmental sustainability and the fact that it should be a key component of the General Plan Update; and the 
need to be thoughtful about transit and circulation, particularly for pedestrians or existing SamTrans users. 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Community Development Director, Christina Horrisberger, reminded the commissioners and attendees that the
August 10th Planning Commission meeting is canceled and that the land use and circulation alternatives would be 
on the agenda for the August 16th City Council meeting. Director Horrisberger also welcomed new commissioner 
Adam Nugent, who will be joining the next meeting and finally, issued a thank you to Commissioner Mallory for 
her service and dedication as a member of the Planning Commission.

--- page 6 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 6/22/2021
Page 3
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 10:44 pm.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                                                      
                                                           
Ramiro Maldonado, Commission Chair                                 Mary Way, Planning Admin

--- page 7 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 8/24/21
1
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Ramiro Maldonado, Chair
Margaret Williams, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
City of San Mateo
Regular Meeting Minutes
Planning Commission
Tuesday, August 24, 2021
Remote 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
CALL TO ORDER 
This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s Executive Order N-29-
20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the Coronavirus Covid-19 health 
emergency.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
ROLL CALL
Remote: Chair Ramiro Maldonado, Vice-Chair Margaret Williams, and Commissioners John Ebneter, Adam Nugent and 
Seema Patel
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the Planning Commission Regular meeting of June 22, 2021. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Ebneter, Seconded: Nugent
Ayes:
Maldonado, Williams, Ebneter, Nugent, Patel
Noes:
None 
PUBLIC COMMENT
There were no public comments.
STUDY SESSION 
2.
Preparation of Objective Design Standards for Multi-Family Residential Development (PA-2019-016)
Associate Planner Wendy Lao introduced consultants Blaze Syka and Makul Malhatra with MIG, who 
presented an overview of objective design standards for multi- family and mixed-use development 
projects and potential outcomes based on new state laws.
There were no Public Comments. 
Commissioners Comments: Commissioners discussed the need for objective design rather than guidelines, 
transitional design within a neighborhood, creative use of daylight plane, respecting neighborhood character and 
walkability, preserving open space, importance of giving architects options in standards. The commissioners 
expressed interest in expanding the objective design standards to other types of buildings (maybe light commercial), 
making the standards as streamline and easy as possible, and also making sure the design standards are not too 
confining to architects with the goal of housing more people.

--- page 8 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 8/24/21
2
PUBLIC HEARING
3.
Draft Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance
Preliminary review for proposed ordinance.
Phillip Brennan, Associate Planner provided a presentation of the project which included
staff recommendations for a proposed ordinance and requested direction on the following items:
1.
Proposed maximum size of ADU (attached and detached) 
2.
Should any architectural design standards be imposed on ADUs? 
3.
What objective design standards for two-story ADU’s (i.e., to lessen privacy impacts)? 
4.
What should be the max building height for ADUs (min 16 feet)?
5.
Should there be a parking requirement for ADUs?
Public Comments: Raayan Mohtashemi was in support the highest building heights and no minimum parking 
requirements. Jordan Grimes expressed that demographics of public participation in surveys and workshops should 
be a part of the process and noted concerns on height limits to ADUs as they relate to
state laws. 
Commissioners Comments: Commissioners expressed concerns that proposed codes are too
restrictive; concerns on making broad decisions based on a small sample size with no demographic information 
collected; request for two track process which includes option of discretionary review; and concerns with including 
all demographics and noting effect on properties based on the 
zoning decisions made. Discussion ensued on simplifying the ordinance by taking out the tiered 
restriction on size and with the design flexibility of the proposed ordinance. 
Commissioner consensus on direction to the draft ordinance:
Motion to recommend amending the drafted ADU/JADU ordinance in the following ways: 
1.
Maximum the JADU size to 650 sq. feet
2.
Remove 1,200 square-foot size limit and allow ADUs to be built to the maximum size of the parcel’s FAR
3.
Remove the five-foot windowsill requirement on 2nd story ADUs
4.
Only prohibit balconies and patios for 2nd story ADUs in cases where they face a property lines that abuts
a residential property
5.
Require obscured glazing on windows that are lower than five feet of the floor when they are within five feet of 
a property line that abuts a residential property
6.
Eliminate the owner occupancy requirement
7.
Include incentives for ADUs meeting expanded reach codes, as determined feasible by staff
8.
Recommendation to study the impact of a daylight plane on two-story ADUs that are built on top of a garage 
and placed at the four-foot setback line. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved: Patel, Seconded: Nugent
Ayes:        Maldonado, Williams, Ebneter, Nugent, Patel
Noes:     None
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
CDD Deputy Director, Zachary Dahl, provided best practices for responding to emails sent to the Commission’s public 
email address and provided updates on items for future Planning Commission meetings. 
ADJOURNMENT

--- page 9 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 8/24/21
3
The meeting adjourned at 12:10 am.
APPROVED BY:
___________________________________
Ramiro Maldonado, Commission Chair
SUBMITTED BY:
___________________________________
Mary Way, Administrative Assistant

--- page 10 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 9/14/21
1
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Ramiro Maldonado, Chair
Margaret Williams, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
City of San Mateo
Regular Meeting Minutes
Planning Commission
Tuesday, September 14, 2021
Remote 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
CALL TO ORDER 
This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s Executive Order N-29-
20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the Coronavirus Covid-19 health 
emergency.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
ROLL CALL
Remote: Vice-Chair Margaret Williams, and Commissioners John Ebneter, Adam Nugent and Seema Patel
Absent: Chair Ramiro Maldonado,
PUBLIC COMMENT
Richard Hedges commented on his appreciation for retired Commissioner Etheridge’s service to the community as a 
Planning Commissioner.
STUDY SESSION 
1.
Pre-Application Review for a Proposed Five-Story Mixed-Use Building at 222 E. 4th Avenue (Draeger’s Grocery)
Associate Planner, Wendy Lao presented an overview of the proposed project seeking direction on the 
following items: Site plan - The configuration of the site, including the proposed street loading zone for the grocery 
store and separated bike lane along B Street; Building Design - The architectural design, building materials, and 
compatibility with the Downtown Retail Core. 
Applicant, Marcus Gilmour with Lane Partners presented a timeline of the project’s progression and more details of 
the site plan and architectural design. Marcus also introduced Sheryl Klein with Alta Housing who is partnering 
with Lane Partners on the affordable housing of this project.
Commissioners Questions: Commissioners had questions regarding current grocery store size vs. proposed: 
possibility of using mechanical lifts for parking vs. valet parking: possibility of assistance for funding from affordable 
housing organization to add more housing to project.
Public Comment: Ranul Bahadur had questions about the configuration of the office space and about the access to 
the proposed open space by upper floors. Richard Hedges liked the design, supported Draeger’s as a tenant and had 
concerns about the loading zone configuration and pedestrian/bicycle access on B St.. Drew mentioned other ethnic 
grocers in the area and did not like the configuration of loading on B St. and felt the proposed configuration of 
Ellsworth as 2-way street was too narrow. Steve Sirianni liked the overall proposed design and saw no issues with 
the proposed B St. configuration for biking and pedestrian traffic. Laurie Watanuki liked the design, would like more

--- page 11 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 9/14/21
2
details on proposed pedestrian walkway/bike lane/loading zone and suggested truck restriction on side streets. 
Cameron Plamer likes the design and hopes the loading zone/bike/pedestrian configuration can be resolved for the 
grocery store. Veril Phillip, resident of Gramercy felt it is important to keep Draeger’s but felt a big concern would be 
increased traffic and safety for pedestrians on 5th Ave., suggests a traffic light be put in place for pedestrian safety at 
5th and Ellsworth. Raayan Mohtashemi feels it is imperative that a grocery store is maintained at this project, felt 
proposed parking garage is over-sized, loading zone issues can be worked out, in favor of more family size housing at 
this site, does not like the design. Michael Weinhauer is in favor of housing at this site but would like to see 2 and 3 
bedroom apartments included vs. micro units, feels that having a grocery store is imperative to project, suggests 
decreasing parking garage spaces, in favor of keeping delivery trucks on main streets to decrease noise, and feels 
that design is uninspired. Mr. Ferrari, a Gramercy resident, feels that this project will have the negative impact of 
traffic congestion and noise and that the parking garage should move to Ellsworth. Dan likes design, and would love 
to see Draeger’s as part of this project, is ok with loading zone and feels that overall this project will benefit 
downtown and the residents of San Mateo. Robert Love and Mrs. Love had questions about the estimated time for 
construction and hours permitted for construction. They also felt that there would be increased traffic on 5th and 
that the parking garage had too many spaces. Koija Schluetter likes the design and that the proposed project would 
retain a grocery store. Diana is in support of the project and is in support of Draeger’s as part of the project and likes 
that they are good feature of downtown and good to their employees. 
Commissioners Comments: Commissioners agreed on the benefit of a grocery store at this project and overall 
project architectural design and is compatible with downtown retail core. Commissioners suggested expanding living 
walls and adding trees on B St. There was interest to work on the loading zone/bike lane/pedestrian walkway on B 
St. and the possibility of changing locations of the loading zone to Ellsworth to alleviate the traffic on B St. and 
provide for safety of pedestrians and bicyclists. Most commissioners would like to see more housing at this location 
and/or 2 and 3 bedroom units and would be interested in maximizing density and height to provide more housing. 
All commissioners commented that this and all future projects need to be cognizant of jobs/housing imbalance and 
how to create a balance in San Mateo.
2.
Pre-Application Review for a Proposed Five-Story Mixed-Use Building at 500 E. 3rd Ave. (Block 21)
Senior Planner, Rendell Bustos presented an overview of the proposed project seeking direction on the 
following items: Building Design – Overall architectural style and neighborhood compatibility; Site plan -Density 
Bonus Concession request and effect on proposed design.  Applicant, Mike Fields with Windy City Property Ventures 
also provided a more detailed overview of the history of the project, architectural style and detailed site plan.
Commissioner Questions: Commissioners had questions about potential bike lane on Delaware, clarification of 
numbers of residential units and potential density bonus residential units, parking garage spaces ratio clarification, 
housing/jobs ratio balance, dimension of walls in courtyard between units, possible Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEEDS Silver) certification and questions about historical significance of proposed buildings 
that would be replaced by this project.
Public Comments: Rahul Bahadur expressed his concern for lack of housing in San Mateo and this development, likes 
that it is located close to Caltrain and potential for commuters, suggested public art and murals for common areas. 
Richard Hedges in favor of adding higher height for more housing, likes design and expressed the importance of a 
grocery store. Erica Powell appreciates design and feels that the 68 units is a great addition and feels that biking lane 
and loading zone are safe for pedestrians and bicyclists. Laurie Watanuki likes the architecture, requesting traffic 
study for intersections at 3rd, 4th, 5th and 9th and South Humboldt and South Delaware, concerned about congestion, 
traffic and safety for pedestrians and bicyclists. Diana had concerns about size of units proposed and feels that

--- page 12 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 9/14/21
3
considerations need to be made for families, also concerned about congestion and traffic in downtown due to more 
construction. 
Commissioners Comments: All Commissioners are in favor of height concession and would even like a larger height 
concession to see more housing. Commissioners expressed concerns that proposed project needs more housing 
including below market housing and 2 and 3-bedroom units to accommodate families. Most Commissioners liked 
the design but would like further considerations to specifics of design elements, site lines for bicycle and pedestrian 
safety, consideration to the character of neighborhood. Other concerns where jobs/housing ratio and the creation 
of balanced growth in San Mateo. There was also discussion amongst the commissioners about this and future 
projects and their impact on the neighborhood both to individuals, businesses, and city.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
CDD Deputy Director, Zachary Dahl, provided updates on items for future Planning Commission meetings. 
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 11:43 pm.
APPROVED BY:
___________________________________
Margaret Williams, Commission Vice-Chair
SUBMITTED BY:
___________________________________
Mary Way, Administrative Assistant

--- page 13 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 21-5106
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger, Community Development Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
October 12, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Alameda de las Pulgas and Portola Drive Cal Water Pump Station Replacement Project – Special Use Permit, Site Plan and 
Architectural Review, and Variance (PA-2020-052)
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Special Use Permit, Site Plan and Architectural Review, and Variance for replacement of 
an existing Cal Water Pump Station based on the Findings for Approval and subject to the Conditions of Approval.
BACKGROUND:
The applicant, California Water Service Company (Cal Water) is proposing to demolish and replace an existing water pump 
station building to improve water system reliability and service in San Mateo. The application includes a Special Use Permit 
(SUP) to allow continuation of a public facility use in the “R1-B” Single Family District; a Site Plan and Architectural Review 
(SPAR) for the construction of a new replacement water pump building; and a Variance to reduce the required street side 
yard setback of 15-feet to 7-feet, 6-inches and to allow the same off-street parking facility of one (1) stall, where two (2) 
stalls are required, based on the Findings for Approval and subject to the Conditions of Approval in Attachment 1
The project site consists of a corner lot that is bounded by Alameda de las Pulgas on the west and Portola Drive on the 
south. The parcel is approximately 5,424 square-feet or 0.12 acres in size. Presently, the project site contains one existing 
water pump station that was constructed in 1954 and is identified as Station 22 in the Cal Water system. The project site is 
surrounded by existing single-family residences. The San Mateo Senior Center is located adjacent to the project site on the 
east. There is an existing public transit stop and SamTrans bus shelter located at the project site frontage on Alameda de 
las Pulgas. A location map showing the project site vicinity is included as Attachment 2.
DISCUSSION:
Project Description
The subject application proposes demolition and replacement of an existing 480 square-foot water pump station to 
improve potable water transmission for City of San Mateo businesses, residents and emergency services. The proposed 
scope includes replacement of the building foundation, station water pipes, electrical and related equipment, and new 
landscaping. Project plans showing the proposed site plan, building footprint and design, utility and landscape 
improvements are included as Attachment 3.
The proposed building floor area and height will remain substantially the same as the existing one-story building at 480 
square-feet in size with an 8-feet, 6-inches plate line height. The project proposes to locate the new building closer to 
Alameda de las Pulgas, which reduces the existing street side yard setback from 16-feet to the proposed 7-feet, 6-inches. 
Currently, one (1) off-street parking stall and driveway access point exists along Alameda de las Pulgas on the north side. 
The project maintains the existing driveway curb cut and proposes expanding the off-street parking stall to 11-feet, 8-

--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
inches width by 25-feet, 6-inches depth. The proposed building design and exterior material is concrete masonry, which is 
consistent with other Cal Water pump building stations for noise control. 
The overall project proposes 1,889 square feet of new landscaping that includes plants, mulch, drip line irrigation and 
steppingstone paths throughout the site. A small free-standing signage is proposed in front of the new station building and 
will serve as an interpretative display to educate public visitors of Cal Water’s mission and service. The proposed 
underground pipe improvements also prompt removal of two (2) Magnolia street trees, which requires a Street Tree 
Removal Permit prior to issuance of any building permit. The Arborist Report is provided as Attachment 4.
A Maintenance Plan provided by the applicant indicates brief daily visits from one Cal Water employee during typical 
business hours to inspect water pump equipment and to ensure that the site remains free of graffiti, litter and debris. The 
employee is also responsible for quarterly inspections of all onsite equipment, building, and landscape. All landscaping  
and upkeep of the irrigation system occurs biannually by a landscaping contractor. However, additional visits may be 
requested should the site require immediate attention by Cal Water employee or landscaping contractor. The proposed 
project will maintain substantially the same capacity and operation as the existing water pump station facility. A 
Maintenance Plan is included as Attachment 5.
General Plan and Zoning 
The General Plan Land Use Diagram designates the project site as Single-Family. A list of applicable General Plan policies 
and findings are provided in Attachment 1. The project generally conforms to the goals and policies of the General Plan. 
The project site is designated “R1-B” (Single-Family Dwelling) on the City’s Zoning Map and identifies non-residential 
structures and public utility facilities as Special Uses that require a Special Use Permit.
Special Use Permit (SUP)
The proposed continuation of an existing water utility use will be consistent with the Zoning Code upon approval of a 
Special Use Permit (SUP). The project, as proposed, will replace an existing water pump station with a new building of the 
same use, capacity, and size. The project appears to meet all required findings for granting of an SUP and will further 
benefit the public health, safety and welfare of the San Mateo community and region with improved potable water 
transmission and service. The project also conforms with the development standards for the residential zone district with 
exceptions to street side yard setback and off-street parking. This is discussed further in the Variance section below. All 
applicable Zoning Code development standards for non-residential structures and public utility uses are provided in the 
Factual Data Sheet as Attachment 6.
Site Plan and Architecture Review (SPAR)
The project requires Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) approval for the proposed site and building design. The 
proposed new water pump station building design is a concrete masonry utility building that is consistent with Cal Water 
pump station prototypes. Staff reviewed the project and suggested revisions on building finishes and window elements to 
improve neighborhood compatibility. These revisions include a gable style roof, brick veneer finish and color to match the 
adjacent San Mateo Senior Center building. This allows the proposed building to appear more consistent with the 
surrounding neighborhood. The revisions also include decorative faux windows along the west and east building facades, 
which will be visible from Alameda de las Pulgas. The proposed revisions result in an improved building façade and more 
neighborhood-friendly appearance than the standard Cal Water pump station designs. A Materials Board showing the 
proposed building materials and faux window designs are provided in Attachment 7. 
Variance
The applicant has requested a Variance to reduce off-street parking and setback requirements for a new non-residential 
structure. The project proposes to use the same off-street parking facility of one (1) stall, where a minimum of two (2) 
stalls are required for a public utility facility. The subject site contains nine (9) existing heritage trees to remain and a 
public transit stop that limit location of an additional off-street parking stall. Additionally, the project proposes a reduced 
street side yard setback of 7-feet, 6-inches along Alameda de las Pulgas, where a minimum setback of 15-feet is required 
for non-residential structures located in the R1 District. The reduced setback is requested due to the proposed water 
piping improvements that require above-surface clearance for maintenance and operational needs. Lastly, the project site

--- page 15 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
consists of an irregularly shaped parcel with a substandard lot width that narrows from 50 feet on the north side to 27 feet 
on the south side, which further limits location of the proposed building and additional off-street parking stall. Such site 
conditions are not common when compared with other parcels within the R1 zoning district. Given that the existing 
operation, capacity and use as a public utility facility will remain substantially the same, and the proposed improvements 
benefit the San Mateo water distribution system, there appears to be a sufficient basis to support the findings for granting 
of the Variance. A detailed description of the daily facility operation, use and proposed improvements are provided in a 
statement by the applicant as Attachment 8.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
The applicant held the required informal neighborhood meeting on May 27, 2020, with no members of the public in 
attendance. Although the virtual meeting received zero participants, additional correspondence with neighbors occurred 
prior and after the meeting date. Questions and comments included general inquiries on the project scope that were 
addressed over the phone. A neighbor located adjacent to the property expressed concerns for noise, landscaping, and 
maintenance of the project site. A summary of the neighborhood informational meeting and additional correspondence 
are included in Attachment 9.
No public comments were submitted to City Staff at the time of writing. Additional public comments received following 
the publication of this agenda report will be provided under separate cover to the Planning Commission on the date of the 
public hearing.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is Categorically Exempt, pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act Guidelines, Class 2, Section 
15302 (c) Replacement or Reconstruction of Existing Utility Systems and/or Facilities, as the project consists of a new 
structure that is located on the same site and provides the same purpose and capacity as the existing structure.
NOTICE PROVIDED
In accordance with Government Code section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, this public 
hearing was noticed to the following parties at least ten days in advance of this Planning Commission meeting:
1)
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site;
2)
The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects;
3)
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and,
4)
The interested parties list which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Draft Resolution (Findings and Conditions of Approval)
Att 2 – Vicinity Map
Att 3 – Project Plans
Att 4 – Arborist Report
Att 5 – Maintenance Plan
Att 6 – Factual Data Sheet
Att 7 – Materials Board
Att 8 – Applicant Statement
Att 9 – Neighborhood Meeting Summary
STAFF CONTACT
Linda Ly, Associate Planner
lly@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7212

--- page 16 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ 2021
RESOLUTION APPROVING THE SPECIAL USE PERMIT (SUP), SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW 
(SPAR), AND VARIANCE FOR REPLACEMENT OF AN EXISTING CAL WATER PUMP STATION AT ALAMEDA 
DE LAS PULGAS AND PORTOLA DRIVE (APN 039-332-200). 
 (PA-2020-052, ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS & PORTOLA DRIVE, CAL WATER PUMP STATION 
REPLACEMENT PROJECT)
WHEREAS, California Water Service Company (herein referred to as the “Applicant”) submitted a 
planning application (PA-2020-052) with the Planning Division for a Special Use Permit (SUP) and Site Plan 
and Architectural Review (SPAR) for replacement of an existing  Cal Water Pump Station at Alameda de las 
Pulgas and Portola Drive, and Variance to allow the same off-street parking facility of one (1) stall and to 
reduce the required street side yard of 15-feet to 7-feet, 6-inches., APN 039-332-200 (collectively referred 
to as “Project”) in the City of San Mateo (“City”); and
WHEREAS, the San Mateo City Charter and Municipal Code Section 27.06.040 authorizes the 
Planning Commission to take final action on the Special Use Permit, Site Plan and Architectural Review and 
variances as authorized in Section 27.78.040 for planning applications for structures other than single-
family and duplex.
WHEREAS, approval of the applicant’s proposal is considered a “Project” for purposes of the 
California Environmental Quality Act, Pub. Resources Code §21000, et seq. (“CEQA”); and
WHEREAS, the City finds that the Project is categorically exempt from CEQA under Section 15302; 
and
WHEREAS, the City finds the Project consistent with the applicable policies of the General Plan 
and other applicable policies, 
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing for the Project on October 12, 2021, 
duly noticed, at which all public comments were considered;
 NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
CALIFORNIA AS FOLLOWS:
1.   The Planning Commission finds on the basis of the whole record before it that the Project will 
not have a significant effect on the environment and is therefore categorically exempt from 
the provisions of CEQA under CEQA Section 15302 (c) Replacement or Reconstruction of 
Existing Utility Systems and/or Facilities, as the project consists of a new structure that is 
located on the same site and provides the same purpose and capacity as the existing structure; 
and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
CALIFORNIA AS FOLLOWS:

--- page 17 ---
1.
The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Land Use Element, Circulation Element, 
Urban Design Element and Noise Elements of the City’s General Plan.
a.
The Project conforms to Goal 4A and Policy LU 5.1 of the Land Use Element, by 
upgrading an existing water utility facility to improve potable water distribution and 
quality for the San Mateo community and region. In conformance with Policy LU 8.6, 
the Project shall adhere to all applicable City ordinances and Conditions of Approval 
to mitigate air quality impacts caused by the proposed demolition and construction 
activities.
b.
The Project conforms to policies C 1.2 and C4.5 of the Circulation Element, in that no 
additional curb cut is proposed along the arterial street Alameda de las Pulgas. The 
Project includes new landscaping, concrete sidewalk, and decorative paving along 
Alameda de las Pulgas to greatly enhance the pedestrian experience for visitors and 
residents.
c.
The Project conforms to Policy UD 1.7 of the Urban Design Element in that the design 
of the project incorporates high quality building materials and decorative window 
elements that reflect the surrounding residential neighborhood character. An 
abundance of new landscaping and pavement improvements are proposed along 
Alameda de las Pulgas, which is identified as a critical minor corridor within San Mateo 
City.
d.
The Project conforms to policies N1.1 and N1.2 of the Noise Element in that the 
proposed concrete masonry building material and acoustical roof louvers will provide 
improved noise control. The project also proposes new electric motors that will 
significantly reduce the existing sound pressure ratings of the water pumps. As 
proposed, the noise generated on-site is expected to fall within the normally 
acceptable range and would be compatible with the surrounding single-family 
residential neighborhood.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN 
MATEO, DOES HEREBY APPROVE ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS & PORTOLA DRIVE, CAL WATER PUMP STATION 
(PA-2020-052) AT ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS AND PORTOLA DRIVE, APN 039-332-200, BASED UPON THE 
FOLLOWING FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL AND THE CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL INCLUDED IN EXHIBIT A TO 
THIS RESOLUTION:
1.
The Special Use Permit (Municipal Code Section 27.74.020) application and associated 
Conditions of Approval are approved based on the finding that granting of the Special 
Permit for public utility uses will not adversely affect the general health, safety and/or 
welfare of the community nor will it cause injury or disturbance to adjacent property by 
traffic or by excessive noise, smoke, odor, noxious gas, dust, glare, heat, fumes or industrial 
waste given that the proposed use will continue operation of an existing Cal Water pump 
station. The proposed improvements will greatly benefit the San Mateo water system 
reliability and quality. 
2.
The Site Plan and Architectural Review (Municipal Code Section 27.08.030) application and 
associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following findings:
a.
The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the 
character of the neighborhood in that:

--- page 18 ---
i.
The building incorporates a brick veneer exterior and decorative window 
elements that improve the overall architectural style and compatibility within 
the existing neighborhood;
ii.
The building utilizes high quality building materials that are more effective for 
noise control and includes an abundance of new landscaping to screen the 
water utility building; and,
iii.
The building location provides additional setback from adjacent residential 
uses to further reduce potential noise and visual impacts.
b.
The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the 
City in that:
i.
The project is consistent with Appendix B of the City’s General Plan, allowing 
utility uses through a Special Use Permit;
ii.
The project replaces an existing water utility building of substantially the same 
capacity, use and size; and,
iii.
The project will upgrade an existing water utility building with concrete 
masonry building material and acoustical roof louvers to further reduce noise 
impact to the existing residential neighborhoods surrounding the site.
c.
The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the 
vicinity, and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare in 
that:
i.
The proposal includes new underground pumps that will increase the 
reliability of potable water transmission within the San Mateo water system;
ii.
The project will provide continued water service for the San Mateo 
community; and,
iii.
The project will be constructed in compliance with all building codes, fire 
codes and the City’s building security code.
d.
The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning 
Commission and City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any 
violations of the zoning ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist 
on the site.
e.
The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security in that the buildings, paths of travel, and parking facilities will 
be required to conform to the City’s current Security Ordinance through Conditions of 
Approval.
2.
The Variance (Municipal Code Section 27.78.020) application and associated Conditions of 
Approval are approved based on the following findings:
a.
There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions applicable to the 
property that do not apply generally to property in the same zone or neighborhood 
including buildings of architectural or historical significance or of architectural interest 
as recognized by action of the City Council or another government agency because the 
project site consists of an irregularly shaped parcel. The subject parcel contains a 
substandard lot width that reduces from 50 feet on the north to 27 feet on the south., 
and does not allow for adequate street side yard setback and expansion of the existing, 
one (1) stall off-street parking facility;

--- page 19 ---
b.
A variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a substantial property 
right of the applicant possessed by other property owners in the same zone or 
neighborhood because the project proposes water piping improvements that limit the 
location and area of the proposed water pump station building and off-street parking 
facility;
c.
Granting of the variance will not be materially detrimental to the public health, safety 
or welfare or materially injurious to other property or improvements in the 
neighborhood in which the property is located because the proposed project will 
replace an existing water utility facility and provide critical infrastructure upgrades to 
improve service and reliability of potable water transmission for the San Mateo 
community and region;
d.
Granting of the variance will not adversely affect or be inconsistent with the general 
plan because the proposed use will continue operation of an existing Cal Water pump 
station and is allowed through a Special Use Permit;
e.
The application is based on constraints imposed by physical features of the site, such 
as existing heritage trees and water piping infrastructure that limit location of the 
proposed water pump station building and off-street parking facility;
f.
Variance for the width of stalls is permissible to allow continued use of an established 
parking facility that is currently provided as one (1) uncovered stall; and,
i.
The variance is needed to continue using existing facilities of one (1) 
uncovered off-street parking stall because of existing site conditions 
that include a substandard lot width, preservation of existing heritage 
trees and necessary water piping infrastructure improvements that 
limit ability to provide an additional off-street parking stall as required

--- page 20 ---
EXHIBIT A
CITY OF SAN MATEO PLANNING APPLICATION
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
PA-2020-052, ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS/PORTOLA DR. CAL WATER PUMP STATION 
REPLACEMENT PROJECT, SUP + SPAR + VARIANCE
PARCEL # 039332200
AS APPROVED BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON ______________
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of  
approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance.  
Additional language within a condition may further define the timing of required compliance.
The following conditions shall be addressed on the construction plans submitted for any 
DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING PERMIT, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, and shall be
satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit is issued first, or if another deadline is 
specified in a condition, at that time.
Building Division (PA)
1 DEMOLITION - Demolition permit(s) shall be issued in accordance with Section 
23.06.100 of the San Mateo Municipal Code. Safeguards during construction shall 
be provided in accordance with Chapter 33 of the California Building Code. Prior 
to the permit issuance, a completed Worksheet/Application and a Demolition Plan 
must be submitted and approved by the Building Official. This form is available at 
the Building Division Counter. (BUILDING)
2 SITE SURVEY – The applicant shall provide a site survey of entire parcel stamped 
and signed by a Land Surveyor licensed by the State of California. The survey shall 
include, but not be limited to, the following: location and dimensions of property 
line, location of streets and easements, existing buildings, topographic contour 
lines, trees/landscape, miscellaneous structures, etc. The purpose of the site 
survey is to accurately verify compliance with items such as setback dimensions, 
heights of buildings from established contours, compliance with heritage tree 
ordinance, etc. (BUILDING)
3 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS - As required by state law, an asbestos and lead paint 
abatement scope of work will be developed prior to issuance of a demolition 
permit for the structure on the project site. All measures outlined in this scope of 
work shall be implemented as part of the project. This scope of work shall outline 
the performance parameters for hazardous remediation standards and regulatory 
compliance criteria. In addition, any asbestos abatement contractors performing 
work on the site will be licensed by the State of California. Buildings of the age of 
those on the project site may contain mercury and/or PCBs. Therefore these 
hazardous materials shall be found and removed prior to demolition and recycling. 
This will be verified as part of a final hazardous materials report prepared by a 
qualified consultant and will be submitted to the Building Division prior to

--- page 21 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-052, Alameda de las Pulgas/Portola Dr. Cal Water Pump Station Replacement Project, 
SUP+SPAR+Variance
As Approved on ______________
Page 2 of 16
issuance of a demolition permit. (BUILDING)
4 SOILS REPORT – The applicant shall provide a stamped, signed, and dated soil 
investigation report containing design recommendations to the Building Official. 
The classification shall be based on observation and any necessary tests of 
materials disclosed by boring or excavations made in appropriate locations. 
Additional studies may be necessary to evaluate soil strength, the effect of 
moisture variation on soil-bearing capacity, compressibility, liquefaction, 
seismically induced soil liquefaction, soil instability, and expansiveness. 
Additionally, the applicant shall submit a stamped, signed, and dated letter from 
the Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared the soil investigation 
stating the following:
(A)
The plans and specifications substantially conform to the recommendations 
in the soil investigation.
(B)
The Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared the soil 
investigation has been retained to provide soil site observation and provide 
periodic and final reports to the City of San Mateo.
Prior to final inspection for any building or structure, the Geotechnical Engineer or 
Civil Engineer who prepared the soil investigation shall issue a final report stating 
the completed pad, foundation, finish grading and associated site work 
substantially conform to the approved plans, specifications and investigations. 
(BUILDING)
Parks and Recreation Department (PA)
5 Demolition Permit, Site Development Permit, or Building Permit- satisfied prior to 
the first permit to be issued APPROVED STREET TREE REMOVAL PERMIT FOR 2 
MAGNOLIA TREES - Prior to the issuance of any building permits, a Street Tree 
removal permit (Protected Tree Work Application) shall be submitted to the Parks 
and Recreation Department. Please send a copy of the approved permit to the 
Building Department. The permit can be obtained from the Parks and Recreation 
Dept.at https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/55776 (PARKS 
AND RECREATION)
6 Demolition Permit, Site Development Permit, or Building Permit- satisfied prior to 
the first permit to be issued INITIAL SITE INSPECTION - Prior to the issuance of 
demolition permits, the Project Arborist is to upload a letter with photos via the

--- page 22 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-052, Alameda de las Pulgas/Portola Dr. Cal Water Pump Station Replacement Project, 
SUP+SPAR+Variance
As Approved on ______________
Page 3 of 16
CSS Portal verifying that all tree protection measures are properly implemented. 
The Building Division may require a schedule of future inspections. (PARKS AND 
RECREATION)
Planning Division (PA)
7 LANDSCAPE IMPROVEMENTS - All landscape plans shall comply with Chapter 27.71 of 
the Municipal Code. In addition, the following items shall be shown on project plans:
(A)
A two-inch (2") depth layer of mulch shall be required in all new planting 
areas except in areas of turfgrass or annuals.
(B)
The applicant shall provide proof of an agreement with a licensed landscape 
contractor or General Contractor for a Plant Establishment Maintenance Period 
consisting of three (3) growing season months (March through October) for all 
proposed landscape areas. All landscaped areas shall be maintained free of litter, 
debris and weeds. All plantings shall be permanently maintained in a healthy 
growing condition and whenever necessary, replaced with equivalent plant 
materials to ensure continued conformance with approved plans. (PLANNING)
8 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – Final plans shall include all the Conditions of 
Approval beginning on sheet 2 of the plans. (PLANNING)
9 HERITAGE TREE PROTECTION - The applicant shall protect all heritage trees 
designated to remain from damage during construction. Tree protection shall 
comply with all provisions of the Heritage Tree Ordinance, approved Tree 
Protection Plan contained in the approved Project Arborist's report, and any 
requirements imposed by the City. The following tree protection measures shall be 
shown on building permit drawings:
(A)
All recommendations for tree protection contained in the approved Tree 
Protection Plan contained in the approved Project Arborist's report, and/or 
additional requirements imposed by the City.
(B)
Protective fencing shall be located at the drip line of existing major 
vegetation to remain. This protective fencing shall be constructed of solid wood, 
chain link, or other solid materials subject to approval of the Zoning Administrator.
In addition, the following requirements shall be complied with at all times during

--- page 23 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-052, Alameda de las Pulgas/Portola Dr. Cal Water Pump Station Replacement Project, 
SUP+SPAR+Variance
As Approved on ______________
Page 4 of 16
construction:
(C)
Oil, gas, chemicals, or construction materials shall not be stored within the 
drip line of trees that are designated to be preserved.
(D)
Signs, wires, or other types of obstructions shall not be attached to trees.
(E)
Trenching under the drip line of trees is to be avoided. If trenching is 
necessary, trenches are to be hand dug and major roots retained.
All tree protection measures shall be constructed prior to issuance of a 
grading permit, demolition permit, or building permit. The Project Arborist 
shall submit a letter and photos to the Project Planner verifying that all 
tree protection measures are properly implemented prior to the issuance 
of the first building permit. (PLANNING)
10 RECORDATION OF CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – The applicant shall record the  
final approved planning application conditions of approval document at the San 
Mateo County Recorder’s Office. The applicant shall submit proof of recordation in 
the form of a recorded document that includes a confirmation sticker with the 
recordation evidence.  This document shall be recorded prior to the issuance of 
the demolition permit, building permit, or site development permit, and shall be 
satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit is issued first. (PLANNING)
11 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – The applicant shall 
check with the Project Planner to determine whether any outstanding planning 
applications fees exist and those fees shall be paid prior to the issuance of the 
first building permit. (PLANNING)
12 VECTOR CONTROL PLAN - Prior to the issuance of a demolition building permit,  
the applicant shall implement and conform to, upon review and approval by the 
Zoning Administrator, a plan for the control and removal of rodents and other 
pests to prevent infestation of adjacent land uses and surrounding neighborhoods. 
This plan shall include pest control measures required during all phases of 
construction, and also for a period of six months after the completion of 
construction. (PLANNING)
13 REQUIRED SIGN PERMIT - No signage is approved as part of this Planning 
Application. The applicant will be responsible for obtaining separate permits for 
signage through the Building Division if applicable. All signs shall conform to the

--- page 24 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-052, Alameda de las Pulgas/Portola Dr. Cal Water Pump Station Replacement Project, 
SUP+SPAR+Variance
As Approved on ______________
Page 5 of 16
standards delineated in the Sign Code per SMMC Title 25. (PLANNING)
14 CONFORMANCE WITH APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION - All building permit 
plans, details, and subsequent construction shall substantially conform with the 
approved planning application. This includes but is not limited to plans, materials, 
project description, and other items submitted as part of the approved planning 
application. Any proposed modifications to the approved planning application 
shall be reviewed and approved by the Community Development Director, or 
his/her designee, prior to construction of the proposed modifications. The 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee shall determine whether 
the proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved planning 
application, or whether a planning application modification is required to be 
submitted to permit the proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code 
Section 27.08.080 Modifications. (PLANNING)
Police Department (PA)
15 EXTERIOR SITE LIGHTING STANDARDS-  The applicant shall submit a photometric 
plan in compliance with the Building Security Code “Exterior Security Lighting” 
(San Mateo Municipal Code Section 23.54.060). The plan shall comply with the 
requirement of an average of 1 foot-candle with a 4:1 minimum to average ratio 
and a minimum lighting of 0.3 foot-candle. This lighting standard is applicable to 
all publicly-accessibly parking lots, driveways, circulation areas, aisles, 
passageways, recesses, and publicly-accessible grounds contiguous to all 
buildings. Private, interior courtyards not accessible to the public are not required 
to meet this standard. The lighting system shall be so designed as to limit light 
spill beyond property lines and to shield the light source from view from off site. 
The photometric plan shall be approved by the Chief of Police or their designee 
prior to the issuance of the first building permit for the project. Any subsequent 
building permits that include any site lighting shall also meet these requirements. 
(POLICE)
16 BUILDING SECURITY CODE COMPLIANCE - The project plans shall comply with the 
City’s Building Security Code (San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.54). 
(POLICE)
Public Works Department (PA)
17 ENCROACHMENT PERMITS, BONDS, AND INSURANCE – The applicant must obtain 
an encroachment permit, posting the required bonds and insurance, and provide a 
one (1) year warranty for all work to be done in the City's right of way or 
easements prior to any work being done. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 25 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-052, Alameda de las Pulgas/Portola Dr. Cal Water Pump Station Replacement Project, 
SUP+SPAR+Variance
As Approved on ______________
Page 6 of 16
18 STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP) – The project applicant 
shall provide a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) in compliance with 
Bay Area Stormwater Management Agencies Association (BASMAA) Blueprint for a 
Clean Bay Best Management Practices to Prevent Stormwater Pollution from 
Construction-Related Activities. (PUBLIC WORKS)
19 GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLANS – All grading and drainage plans shall identify 
the vertical elevation datum, date of survey, and surveyor. Grading plans shall 
show existing topo and features at least 50’ beyond the project boundary. Plan 
shall show existing topography, label contour elevations, drainage patterns, flow 
lines, slopes, and all other property encumbrances. (PUBLIC WORKS)
20 PERMITS REQUIRED BY OTHER AGENCIES – The applicant is hereby informed that 
permits may be required by Sam Trans. Any work along the project frontage that 
would impact or modify the existing bus stop requires City and Sam Trans review 
and approval. (PUBLIC WORKS)
21 ADDRESS PLAN – The applicant shall submit to the Public Works Department a 
final address plan.  The plan shall be substantially in conformance with the 
address plan approved with the planning application. Said submittal shall be 
approved by the Director of Public Works or designee prior to the submittal of 
plans for any demolition permit, building permit, or site development permit and 
shall be satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit is issued first. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
22 CHARGES FOR PUBLIC WORKS SERVICES – Prior to plan checking, the applicant 
shall be required to deposit with the City, funds to pay for, at the adopted rate, all 
engineering, inspection and survey services that may be required during plan 
check and construction of the project. The amount of the deposit shall be 
$30,000.00. Public Works plan checking of the plans submitted with the building 
permit plans cannot proceed until the deposit is submitted. The applicant shall be 
required to increase the deposit at the discretion of the City, for any costs in 
excess of the deposit. Invoices shall not become delinquent (must be paid within 
30 days of receipt). Prior to final occupancy the bill shall be paid in full. The City 
will refund any portion of the deposit not utilized. (PUBLIC WORKS)
23 FENCES AND OTHER PERMANENT STRUCTURES – The applicant shall locate all 
project fencing and foundations of a permanent nature within the project’s 
property and out of the City right-of-way. (PUBLIC WORKS)
24 POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCB) SCREENING ASSESSMENT FORM – As per

--- page 26 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-052, Alameda de las Pulgas/Portola Dr. Cal Water Pump Station Replacement Project, 
SUP+SPAR+Variance
As Approved on ______________
Page 7 of 16
Stormwater Municipal Regional Permit requirements and San Mateo Municipal 
Code Chapter 7.39, Demolition Permit Applicants shall complete the PCBs  
Screening Assessment Form located here: 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/160/Demolition-Requirements  The Form shall be 
reviewed and approved by the Director of Public Works or his/her designee. 
(PUBLIC WORKS)
25 TRAFFIC CONTROL & SITE LOGISTICS PLANS – The applicant shall submit traffic 
control plans for any impact to the right-of-way for each phase of operation, 
including pedestrian and bicycle detour plans as applicable. The traffic control 
plan shall comply with the most recent version of the California Manual of 
Uniform Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD) and the City’s Traffic Control Plan 
Requirements.
The following conditions shall be addressed on the construction plans submitted for A 
BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE SUPERSTRUCTURE and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of this 
permit, or if another deadline is specified in a condition, at that time.
Building Division (PA)
26 WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING - The applicant shall submit a 
completed Water Conservation in landscaping Screening Form. If the screening 
form indicates the project is subject to the Water Conservation in Landscaping 
Ordinance per SMMC 23.72.030, additional documentation prescribed by the 
screening form shall also be included with the site plan. City of San Mateo Water 
Conservation in Landscaping forms are located on Building Division webpage. 
(BUILDING)
Public Works Department (PA)
27 DRAINAGE – Drainage designed into landscaping with the purpose of reducing 
volume or improving quality of runoff from the site shall be implemented, to 
extent feasible, subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works or  
designee or designee. Where necessary, sidewalk drains per City Standard 
Drawing 3-1-120 shall be provided to direct the water under the sidewalk and 
through the curb. No increase to the peak discharge shall be permitted 
downstream. In addition, discharge must conform to any non-point source permit 
issued by the Regional Water Quality Control Board. Drainage improvements 
made on-site shall conform to standard engineering practices and shall not allow 
any site drainage to impact adjacent properties. The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show drainage. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 27 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-052, Alameda de las Pulgas/Portola Dr. Cal Water Pump Station Replacement Project, 
SUP+SPAR+Variance
As Approved on ______________
Page 8 of 16
28 TRIANGULAR AREA OF VISIBILITY – The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show that the installation of landscaping and permanent 
structures located within the 10' triangular area of visibility at the driveway meets 
the requirements of a minimum vertical clearance of 7', and/or are less than 3' in 
height. This includes all PG&E above ground structures and other utility facilities. 
(PUBLIC WORKS)
29 STORM DRAIN INLETS AND WATERWAYS – The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show the marking of the words “No Dumping! Flows to Bay,” 
or equivalent, on all storm inlets surrounding and within the project site using 
methods approved by the City standards, consistent with the San Mateo 
Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program’s C.3 requirements (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
30 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS – An Encroachment Permit shall be required for all 
public improvements in the public right-of-way or easements. All public 
improvements shall be completed prior to the Certificate of Occupancy. The 
developer shall repair or replace all existing improvements not designated for 
removal and all new improvements that are damaged or removed because of 
developer's operations. Developer shall request a walk-through with the Public 
Works Construction Inspector before the start of construction to verify existing 
conditions.
The applicant shall have improvement plans prepared for all work in the public 
right of way or easements by a licensed civil engineer, whose signed engineer’s 
stamp shall appear on the plans. The improvement plans shall be included in the 
superstructure building permit submittal and substantially conform to the 
approved planning application. Any changes to the improvements shall be 
approved by the Director of Public Works or designee at their sole discretion. All 
design assumptions and criteria shall be submitted. Project specifications shall 
be included for review.
All work shown on the improvement plans shall be inspected and approved by 
Public Works.
Quantities for items below are provided only to determine minimum bonding 
requirements for the encroachment permit. The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show the following public improvements in the public right 
of way:
(A) STREET BEAUTIFICATION – The applicant shall improve the street frontage to 
match the City of San Mateo street beautification program in effect at the time of 
construction. The applicant shall have beautification plans prepared and obtain

--- page 28 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-052, Alameda de las Pulgas/Portola Dr. Cal Water Pump Station Replacement Project, 
SUP+SPAR+Variance
As Approved on ______________
Page 9 of 16
Public Works Department approval prior to issuance of an encroachment permit. 
(PUBLIC WORKS)
(B) STREET MARKINGS – The applicant shall install necessary street markings of a 
material and design approved by the Director of Public Works or designee and 
replace any that are damaged during construction. These include but are not 
limited to all pavement markings, painted curbs and handicap markings. All 
permanent pavement markings shall be thermoplastic. Color and location of 
painted curbs shall be shown on the plans and subject to approval by the Director 
of Public Works or designee. Any existing painted curb or pavement markings no 
longer required shall be removed by grinding if thermoplastic, sand blasting if in 
paint. Once installed, the applicant shall coordinate with City crews to mark any 
red curb within the proposed City right-of-way with a City seal. (PUBLIC WORKS)
(C) SIDEWALK – The applicant shall replace to existing City standards all sidewalk 
surrounding the project site. Sidewalk replacement shall be constructed per City 
Standard Drawing 3-1-141A (or 3-1-141B). At the time the planning application 
was filed, a minimum of two hundred (200) square feet of sidewalk will need to be 
replaced. (PUBLIC WORKS)
(D) DRIVEWAY APPROACH – The applicant shall remove existing and install one 
City Standard Commercial driveway approach(es) as shown on the approved plans. 
The new commercial driveway approach shall be constructed per City Standard 
Drawing 3-1-148. (PUBLIC WORKS)
(E) RESTORATION OF ROADWAY – Due to the proposed trenching within Portola 
Drive frontage, the applicant shall grind and overlay with 2.5 inches of asphalt 
concrete. Limits of the roadway repair shall be for the entire length of Portola 
Drive frontage and curb to curb width of the roadway. The Director of Public 
Works or designee shall approve the roadway repair prior to the release of 
utilities, final inspection, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever 
occurs first. (PUBLIC WORKS)
(F) ADA CURB RAMP – The applicant shall remove and replace the existing ADA 
curb ramp at the corner of Portola Drive/Alameda De Las Pulgas with current 
Caltrans standard.

--- page 29 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-052, Alameda de las Pulgas/Portola Dr. Cal Water Pump Station Replacement Project, 
SUP+SPAR+Variance
As Approved on 
Page 10 of 16
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, or 
ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, whichever occurs first, or if another deadline 
is specified in a condition, at that time.
Planning Division (PA)
31 PLANNING DIVISION INSPECTIONS – The applicant shall notify the project planner 
for inspections related to construction of all structures, landscaping, and other 
site improvements. The notification request shall be given at least 72 hours prior 
to the requested time for inspection. (PLANNING)
32 LETTER OF ARCHITECTURAL COMPLIANCE – The designer or architect of record 
shall submit a stamped and signed letter of compliance that the construction is 
consistent with the approved building permit plans, prior to scheduling the final 
Planning Division inspection. This condition shall be met prior to the release of 
utilities, final inspection, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever 
occurs first. (PLANNING)
33 VERIFICATION OF LANDSCAPE INSTALLATION – The applicant shall submit a letter 
prepared by the project licensed landscape contractor or designer stating that all 
landscape improvements (including trees, shrubs, and irrigation systems) have 
been installed in compliance with the approved landscape plans submitted to the 
City for construction. This condition shall be met prior to the release of utilities, 
final inspection, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs first. 
(PLANNING)
Public Works Department (PA)
34 RECORD DRAWINGS – The applicant shall submit one full set of original record 
drawings and construction specifications for all off-site improvements to the 
Department of Public Works. All underground facilities shall be shown on the 
record drawings as constructed in the field. The applicant shall also provide the 
City with an electronic copy of the as-builts in PDF and the AutoCAD Version being 
used by the City at the time of completion of the work. This condition shall be met 
prior to the release of utilities, final inspection, or issuance of a certificate of 
occupancy, whichever occurs first.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION 
PHASE OF THE PROJECT, or if another deadline is specified in a condition, at that time.
Building Division (PA)
35 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES - The following provision to control traffic

--- page 30 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-052, Alameda de las Pulgas/Portola Dr. Cal Water Pump Station Replacement Project, 
SUP+SPAR+Variance
As Approved on 
Page 11 of 16
congestion, noise, and dust shall be followed during site excavation, grading and 
construction:
Work hours regulated by the San Mateo Municipal Code shall only be permitted 
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, between 
9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on Saturday, and between 12:00 noon and 4:00 p.m. on 
Sundays and holidays. These hours do not apply to construction work that takes 
place inside a completely enclosed building and does not exceed the exterior 
ambient noise level as measured 10 feet from the exterior property lines.
The allowed hours of Building construction activities may be waived or modified 
through an exemption from the hours of work designated in Section 23.06.060 of 
the San Mateo Municipal Code, for limited periods, if the Building Official finds 
that:
(A)
The following criteria are met:
(i)
Permitting extended hours of construction will decrease the total time 
needed to complete the project thus mitigating the total amount of noise 
associated with the project as a whole; or
(ii)
An emergency situation exists where the construction is necessary to correct 
an unsafe or dangerous condition resulting in obvious and eminent peril to public 
health and safety. If such a condition exists, the City may waive any of the 
remaining requirements outlined below.
(B)
The exemption will not conflict with any other conditions of approval 
required by the City to mitigate significant impacts.
(C)
The contractor or owner of the property will notify residential and 
commercial occupants of property adjacent to the construction site of the hours of 
construction activity which may impact the area. This notification must be 
provided three days prior to the start of the construction activity.
(D)
The approved hours of construction activity will be posted at the 
construction site in a place and manner that can be easily viewed by an interested 
member of the public.

--- page 31 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-052, Alameda de las Pulgas/Portola Dr. Cal Water Pump Station Replacement Project, 
SUP+SPAR+Variance
As Approved on ______________
Page 12 of 16
The Building Official may revoke the exemption at any time if the contractor or 
owner of the property fails to abide by the conditions of exemption or if it is 
determined that the peace, comfort and tranquility of the occupants of adjacent 
residential or commercial properties are impaired because of the location and 
nature of the construction. The waiver application must be submitted to the 
Building Official ten (10) working days prior to the requested date of waiver. 
(BUILDING)
Parks and Recreation Department (PA)
36 Complied with at all times during the construction phase of the project TREE 
PROTECTION MEASURES - All required Tree Protection Measures are to remain in 
place and properly maintained during all phases of construction. The Contractor is 
to notify the Project Arborist in advance when construction operations are to be 
performed within the drip line of protected trees. (e.g. trenching, excavation,  
grade changes) Adjustment of Tree Protection Measures require approval from the 
Project Arborist. (PARKS AND RECREATION)
Public Works Department (PA)
37 MATERIAL HAULING – For material delivery vehicles equal to, or larger than two-
axle, six-tire single unit truck (SU) size or larger as defined by FHWA Standards, the 
applicant shall submit a truck hauling route that conforms to City of San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 11.28.040 for the approval of the Director of Public Works 
or designee. The project sponsor shall require contractors to  prohibit trucks from 
using “compression release engine brakes” on residential streets. The haul route 
for this project shall be HWY 92 to Alameda De Las Pulgas or as approved by the 
Director of Public Works or designee. A letter from the applicant confirming the 
intention to use this hauling route shall be submitted to the Department of Public 
Works, and approved, prior to the issuance of any City permits. All material 
hauling activities including but not limited to, adherence to the approved route, 
hours of operation, staging of materials, dust control and street maintenance shall 
be the responsibility of the applicant. All storage and office trailers will be kept off 
the public right-of-way. Tracking of dirt onto City streets and walks will not be 
allowed. Entry and exit from the site will use rock or rumble strips to prevent 
tracking. The applicant must provide an approved method of cleaning tires and 
trimming loads on site. Any job related dirt and/or debris  that impacts the public 
right of way shall be removed immediately. No wash down of dirt into storm 
drains will be allowed. Use of a sweeper is permissible as long as it operates dry 
(no water used, only vacuum). All material hauling activities

--- page 32 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-052, Alameda de las Pulgas/Portola Dr. Cal Water Pump Station Replacement Project, 
SUP+SPAR+Variance
As Approved on ______________
Page 13 of 16
shall be done in accordance with applicable City ordinances and conditions of 
approval. Violation of such may be cause for suspension of work.
38 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – The applicant shall perform all 
construction activities in accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management 
and Discharge Control Rules and Regulations (SMMC 7.39), and the San Mateo 
Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SMCWPPP) by reference. Detailed 
information can be located at:
https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-stormwater-pollution/with-new-redevelop 
ment/construction-best-practices/
(PUBLIC WORKS)
39 PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES – The following provision to control 
traffic congestion, noise, and dust shall be followed during site excavation, 
grading and construction:
(A) Construction activities related to the issuance of any Public Works permit shall 
be restricted to the weekday between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Please note, 
however, that no work shall be allowed to take place within the City right-of-way 
after 5:00 p.m. In addition, no work being done under the issuance of a Public 
Works encroachment permit may be performed on the weekend unless prior 
approvals have been granted by Public Works. Earth haul and materials delivery 
to and from the site, including truck arrivals and departures to and from the site, 
will be prohibited between the weekday hours of 4:00 p.m.  5:30 p.m. Signs 
outlining these restrictions shall be posted at conspicuous locations on site. The 
signs shall be per the City Standard Drawing for posting construction hours. The 
sign shall be kept free of graffiti at all times. Contact the Public Works 
Department to obtain sample City Standard sign outlining hours of operation.
The allowed hours of Public Works construction activities may be waived or 
modified through an exemption, for limited periods, if the Director of Public Works 
or designee finds that:
(i) The following criteria are met:
(a) Permitting extended hours of construction will decrease the total time needed 
to complete the project thus mitigating the total amount of noise associated with 
the project as a whole; or

--- page 33 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-052, Alameda de las Pulgas/Portola Dr. Cal Water Pump Station Replacement Project, 
SUP+SPAR+Variance
As Approved on ______________
Page 14 of 16
(b) Permitting extended hours of construction are required to accommodate 
design or engineering requirements, such as a large concrete pour. Such a need 
would be determined by the project's design engineer and require approval of the 
Director of Public Works or designee.
(c) An emergency situation exists where the construction work is necessary to 
correct an unsafe or dangerous condition resulting in obvious and eminent peril to 
public health and safety. If such a condition exists, the City may waive any of the 
remaining requirements outlined below.
(ii) The exemption will not conflict with any other condition of approval required 
by the City to mitigate significant impacts.
(iii) The contractor or owner of the property will notify residential and commercial 
occupants of property adjacent to the construction site of the hours of 
construction activity which may impact the area. This notification must be 
provided three days prior to the start of the extended construction activity.
(iv) The approved hours of construction activity will be posted at the construction 
site in a place and manner that can be easily viewed by any interested member of 
the public.
The Director of Public Works or designee may revoke the exemption at any time if 
the contractor or owner of the property fails to abide by the conditions of 
exemption or if it is determined that the peace, comfort and tranquility of the 
occupants of adjacent residential or commercial properties are impaired because 
of the location and nature of the construction. The waiver application must be 
submitted to the Public Works Construction Inspector ten (10) working days prior 
to the requested date of waiver.
(B) All construction vehicles should be properly maintained and equipped with 
exhaust mufflers that meet State standards.
(C) Newly disturbed soil surfaces shall be watered down regularly by a water 
trucks or by other approved method maintained on site during all grading 
operations.  Construction grading activity shall be discontinued in wind conditions 
that in the opinion of the Public Works Construction Inspector cause excessive 
neighborhood dust problems.  Wash down of dirt and debris into storm drain

--- page 34 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-052, Alameda de las Pulgas/Portola Dr. Cal Water Pump Station Replacement Project, 
SUP+SPAR+Variance
As Approved on ______________
Page 15 of 16
systems will not be allowed.
(D) Construction activities shall be scheduled so that paving and foundation 
placement begin immediately upon completion of grading operation.
(E) All aggregate materials transported to and from the site shall be covered in 
accordance with Section 23114 of the California Vehicle Code during transit to and 
from the site.
(F) Prior to issuance of any permit, the applicant shall submit any applicable 
pedestrian or traffic detour plans, to the satisfaction of the Director of Public 
Works or designee, for any lane or sidewalk closures. The detour plan shall 
comply with Part 6, Temporary Traffic Control, of the State of California Manual of 
Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), 2012, and standard construction 
practices. (PUBLIC WORKS)
40 CONSTRUCTION WORKER PARKING – The applicant shall provide a construction-
parking plan that minimizes the effect of construction worker parking in the 
neighborhood and shall include an estimate of the number of workers that will be 
present on the site during the various phases of construction and indicate where 
sufficient off-street parking will be utilized and identify any locations for off-site 
material deliveries. Said plan shall be approved by the Director of Public Works 
or designee prior to issuance of City permits and shall be complied with at all 
times during construction. Failure to enforce the parking plan may result in 
suspension of the City permits. (PUBLIC WORKS)
41 GROUND WATER DISCHARGE – In accordance with the Director of Public Works 
Groundwater Discharge Policy, discharge of contaminated groundwater to the 
sanitary sewer is only allowed on a temporary basis and will not be permitted for 
a period greater than 6 months. Discharges for longer than 6 months must obtain 
an NPDES permit from the State Water Board to discharge to the storm drain 
system. Discharge of uncontaminated groundwater to the storm drain is 
permissible if the applicant can provide analytical data to support the claim. No 
discharge to the storm drain is allowed without prior approval from the Public 
Works Department. All discharges to the sanitary sewer (contaminated and 
uncontaminated) require a Waste Discharge Permit and must comply with the 
City’s discharge limits. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 35 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2020-052, Alameda de las Pulgas/Portola Dr. Cal Water Pump Station Replacement Project, 
SUP+SPAR+Variance
As Approved on ______________
Page 1 of 16
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the use permitted by this 
planning application occupies the premises.
City Attorney (PA)
42 INDEMNIFICATION – The applicant will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City of 
San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against 
any costs, claims, or liabilities arising out of the approval of this planning application, 
including, without limitation, any award of attorney fees that might result from third 
party challenge. If applicant is required to defend the City, the City shall retain the right 
to select the counsel who shall defend the City.
(CITY ATTORNEY)
43 PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.02.210-Violations 
of Planning Application Conditions, any violation of any of the conditions of approval is 
unlawful and will subject the applicant to the penalties set forth in Chapter 1.04-General 
Penalty of the San Mateo Municipal Code as well as any other available legal remedies. 
(CITY ATTORNEY)
Planning Division (PA)
44 CONFORMANCE WITH APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION AT ALL TIMES - All physical 
improvements, uses, and operational requirements authorized by the approved 
planning application shall substantially conform at all times that the use permitted by 
this planning application occupies the premises with the approved planning application. 
This includes but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and other items 
submitted as part of the approved planning application. Any proposed modifications to 
the approved planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the Community 
Development Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the proposed 
modifications. The Community Development Director, or his/her designee shall 
determine whether the proposed modifications substantially conform with the 
approved planning application, or whether a planning application modification is 
required to be submitted to permit the proposed modifications, as required by 
Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications. (PLANNING)
* MITIGATION MEASURE ‐ This measure mitigates adverse environmental effects identified in the 
environmental document. Monitoring procedures are contained within the condition of approval. A 
change in the condition may affect the validity of the current environmental document, and a new or 
amended environmental document may be required.

--- page 36 ---
Attachment 2 – Vicinity Map
PA-2020-052, APN: 039-332-200, Alameda de las Pulgas & Portola Dr. Cal Water Pump Station Replacement Project, SUP + SPAR + Variance
FOR REFERENCE ONLY
 
500 feet

--- page 37 ---
NOTE

1, PROPERTY LOCATION: RECORDED AS A PORTION OF RECORD OF SURVEY VOLUME 41, PAGE 98,
R/S NO. 2773 AND PARCEL MAP NO. 306, VOLUME 62, PAGE 47, ASSESSOR'S MAP COUNTY
OF SAN MATEO, APN NO, 039-332-200.

PROPOSED FACILITY IS A WATER UTILITY PUMP STATION, NOT A PUCE OF EMPLOYMENT, PUBLIC

ACCOMMODATION, OR COMMERCIAL FACILITY, THEREFORE, THIS PROIECT IS NOT SUBJECT TO
THE ADA. PROVISIONS OF TITLE 24 IN THE CALIFORNIA BUILOING CODE.

TWO (2) SIGNIFICANT TREES TO BE REMOVED. TREE REMOVAL AND REPLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS
WiLL COMPLY WITH CITY ORDINANCE CHAPTER 18 SECTION 18,

1. FENCING AND LANDSCAPING WILL BE MAINTAINED IN GOOD CONDITION,
ALL PIPE WITHIN STATION PROPERTY “IO BE ABANDONED,” IS TO BE REMOVED.

EASEMENT NOTE

‘A CURRENT TITLE REPORT FOR THE SUBJECT PROPERTY HAS NOT BEIN EXAMINED BY LEA & BRAZE
ENGINEERING, INC. EASEMENTS OF RECORD MAY EXIST THAT ARE NOT SHOWN ON THIS MAP,
EASEMENTS SHOWN ARE PER PARCEL MAP 306 (62 PM 46) & (21 MAPS 76),

WATER UTILITY PROJECT:

THE PROPOSED PROJECT WILL REPLACE THE EXISTING BUILDING FOUNCATION, PUMPS, AND STATION
PIPING, AND SERVE THE EXACT SAME FUNCTION (LE, POTABLE WATER BOOSTER STATION). THE NEW
EQUIPMENT AND BUILDING WILL INCREASE THE WATER SYSTEM'S RELIAMLITY, WHILE AESTHETICALLY

BLENDING INTO THE SURROUNDING NEIGHBORHOOD, RESPECTIVELY.
PROPOSED FACILITIES:
@® 16 x 30% x 12 CONCRETE MASONRY BUILDING
BOOSTER PUMPS
© PUMP E = 2,000 GPM, 60 HP
* PUMP F = 2,400 GPM, 50 HP
* PUMP G = 2,000 GPM, 50 HP
@ 000k ELECTRICAL PANELBOARD
Oe WDE CONCRETE WALKWAY & 4’ WIDE CONCRETE PORCH
@3 HroRanis
©! FLOW METER AND VAULTS
@ EXPAND ORVEWAY APPROACH & RE-PAVE DRIVEWAY
@ BxTERIOR UGHTING
@ 1.889 SQUARE FEET OF NEW LANDSCAPING
@ 1 Flow METER AND VAULT AT NEARBY STATION 27

xd
IG CLASSIFICATION ~ RIB (ONE FAMILY DWELLING BY

FRE SPRINKLERS AS FIRE’ SPRINKLER SySTEN Y/A\

© WORK SHALL BE COMPLETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE 2019 CALFORNIA BUILDING (CBC),
PLUMBING (CPC), MECHANICAL (CMC), FIRE (CFC), AND ELECTRICAL (CEC) CODES.

HERTAGE TREE SURVEY DATA

COMMON. NAME QUAMETER (1n") WAL RATIO
CHINESE ELM 125/11 30'/20°
LIQUIDAMBAR 17.8 20°/20°
UQUIDAMBAR 19.5 20°/25'
LIQUIDAWBAR 205 28'/30°
LQUIDAMBAR a5 20/25"
CAMPHOR 24.5 45/50"
COAST LIVE OAK 175 40/48"
MAGNOUA 185 wae
MAGNOLIA 195 307/20

CALIFORNIA WATER SERVICE

STATION 022 - SAN MATEO, CA
PROPOSED STATION REDEVELOPMENT

STATION 22)\

iN

STA 27
BERESFORD
TANKS

VICINITY MAP

NTS.

on

DEVELOPMENT PROJECT DATA INFORMATION

[ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS & PORTOLA ORVE

SE Mone ISAN MATEO, CA 94403

APN (039-33-2200

ZONING CLASSIFICATION: RIB

UOT SIZE (Sq, Ft): 3.424

PERMITTED FLOOR AREA RATIO: 05
MAXIMUM PERMITTED FLOOR AREA (Sq. Ft): 2.712
EXISTING: [PROPOSED:

FLOOR AREA (SQ. FT.)*
MAIN STRUCTURE (STATION): 480

TOTAL FLOOR AREA: 480

DRIVEWAY IS ADEQUATE FOR 2 VEHICLES

GRADING EARTHWORK QUANTITIES:

Cur: 4.74 Cu. YO,
Fills 9.24 CU, Y,
NET; 4.50 CU. YD. (FILL)

NOTE:

EARTHWORK QUANTITIES ARE APPROXIMATE FOR PERMITTING PURPOSES
ONLY. NO SHRINK OR SWELL FACTORS HAVE BEEN APPLIED TO THESE
VALUES. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL 3& RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL GRADING
REQUIRED 10 OBTAIN FINISH GRADES AS SHOWN,

DRAWING INDEX:

‘TOTLE. SHEET_No.. DRAWING No.

TITLE COVER SHEET 1 OF 23 MPS~5403-R4
EXISTING & PROPOSED SITE PLAN 2 OF 23 MPS~5403-R3
PROPOSED ABOVE GROUND FEATURES 3 OF 23 MPS~5403-R3
ELEVATIONS 4 OF 23 MPS-5403-R3

PHASE 1 — DEMOLITION PLAN 5 OF 23 MPS-S411-R1

GRADING PLAN 6 OF 23 MPS-5412-R3

PIPING PLAN — ISOMETRIC VIEW 7 OF 23 MPS-5437-R3

PIPING PLAN = GENERAL NOTES 8 OF 23 MPS~S404-R3
PHASE 1 = PIPING PLAN 9 OF 23 MPS~5404—R2
PHASE 1 - PIPING PLAN - PORTOLA DRIVE 10 OF 23, MPS-5404-R1
PHASE 2 - PIPING PLAN 11 OF 23, MPS-S404-R3
PHASE 3 - PIPING PLAN 12 OF 23, MPS-5404—R3
PIPING DETALS 13 OF 23, MPS-S404—R3
PIPING DETALS 14 OF 23, MPS~5404—R3

PHASE 3 = STATION 27 FLOW METER INSTALLATION 15 OF 23 MPS~5497-R2

TREE PROTECTION PLAN 16 OF 23 MPS~9039-R2
ARBORIST REPORT 17 OF 23, MPS~5539-R2
ARBORIST REPORT CONT. 18 OF 23, MPS-5539-R2

STRUCTURAL PLAN (PACING ENGNEERNG GROUP) 190-4 OF MPS-5621

WATER POLLUTION CONTROL DRAWINGS 20 OF 23 MPS-WPC-R1

CONSTRUCTION BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES 21 OF 23 MPS-CBMP-R1

LANDSCAPING PLAN PACKAGE (UunscAPe Renecrons) —-220~¢ OF 23 MPS~5623,

LIGHTING AND PHOTOMETRIC SITE PLAN (wrtRwoms) 230 OF 23 MPS~5654
UGHTING STE PLAN 2 23> OF 23 MPS-5654

ENGINEERING

DEPARTMENT

REVISIONS:
‘MU BUNLDING DESIGN, —___
WALKWAYS, RO, 3/1720

» BALE PLY

At tie

18

cA ae
fale AS

Vast one Sai 2621

PLAT SUEET NO.:

SM-29~-25

AS_SHOWN

be b. Lsasnons

‘APPROVED BY: DATE:

Let e/24/2028

a
&
nN
=
a.
a
28
EE
a
pone
or
Zz
S28
fe
aa
Z
Boa
oo
D
ge
29
%
a,
|
E
&
DISTRICT:

MID_PENINSULA

SAN MATEO

Dare:

11/13/2019

PROIECT 1D.

00098594
DRAWING NO.

MPS-5403-R4

sur tor 4

SHEET 1 OF 23



--- page 38 ---
(E)_ 18" MAGNOUA
TREE
TO BE REMOVED

[08 rere (0 € weno Fae

STATION 22 EXISTING SITE PLAN
SCALE: 1” = 10°

~

~ 4

|
/

PORTOLA DRIVE]

ABBREVIATIONS:

APN = ASSESSORS PARCEL NUWBER
iB = AGGREGATE BASE

a = ASPHALT CONCRETE

ce = CATCH BASIN

C = CAST IRON

o = CONCRETE

CPLG = = COUPLING

CU. YD. = CUBIC YARO(S)

Ev RBggaagr2gosspreg

HORSEPOWER

‘= INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE
LENGTH

= MANHOLE.

LEGEND:

CABLE TV ~ BURIED
CENTER LINE
EASEMENT
ELECTRICAL - ABOVE GROUND
EXISTING WATER
CHAINUNK FENCE
WROUGHT IRON FENCE
FIBER
Os
INTERIOR LOT UNES
On
PROPERTY UNE
PROPOSED WATER
RIGHT-OF-WAY (R/W)
SANTTARY SEWER
‘STORM DRAIN
‘STRUCTURE
TELECOMMUNICATIONS ~ BURIED
WALL ~ BLOCK
ESSE = CONCRETE PAVEMENT
Mmmm = CLASS 1 AS CHUSHED ROCK
— "sar
‘= OIRT/EARTH
= MULCH
w= SINGLE POLE SIGN

= MECHANICAL JOINT

ow = TE
> = ELBOW, 45°
1 = ELBOW, 90°
2 = BLOWOFF (PROPOSED)
= BLOWOFF (BxisTING)
© = GATE VALVE (PROPOSED)
© = GATE VALVE (EXISTING)
'S = GATE va.ve (PRoposeD)
NORMALLY CLOSED
"B= cATE vave (PROPOSED)
NORMALLY OPEN

> = REDUCER (PROPOSED)
> = REDUCER (EXISTING)
© = FIRE HYDRANT (PROPOSED)
© = FIRE HYORANT (EXISTING)
© = BUTTERFLY VALVE
@ = CHECK VALVE
ft = FLEX CPLG,
(ID = carcn ease
Bl = Fuow/wac ever

PPC) = POWER POLE
@ = STORM DRAIN MANHOLE

ENGINEERING

Sains

anare
FIAT SHEET NO.

SM-29-25

AS SHOWN

DRAWN BY
R.0./P.R.

DESIONED BY:
S._ GONZALEZ

‘TaCH REVIEW: DATE:
a)

STATION 22

MID PENINSULA
PROPOSED STATION REDEVELOPMENT

EXISTING & PROPOSED SITE PLAN

MID_PENINSULA

SAN MATEO

TE:

11/13/2019
PROIECT 1D:

00098594
DRAWING NO.:

MPS-5403-R3
sur_2 or 4

SHEET 2 OF 23



--- page 39 ---
—cov—
a a

INTERIOR LOT LINES
Ol
PROPERTY UNE
PROPOSED WATER
RIGHT-OF-WAY (R/W)
‘SANITARY SEWER:
STORW ORAIN
STRUCTURE
TELECOMMUNICATIONS = BURIED
WALL ~ BLOCK
(ESET) = CONCRETE PAVEMENT
RS = PERLE.
— -mr

= Te

™ » ELBOW, 45°

*1 = ELBOW, 90°

2 = BLOWOFF (PROPOSED)
2® = BLOWOFF (EXISTING)

(© = GATE VALVE (PROPOSED)
© = GATE VALVE (EXISTING)

'S = cate ve (PROPOSED)
NORMALLY ‘CLOSED

'D = caTE. VALVE (PROPOSED)
NORMALLY OPEN
> = REDUCER (PROPOSED)
> = REDUCER (EXISTING)
@ = FIRE HYDRANT (PROPOSED)
@ = FIRE HYDRANT (EXISTING)
© = BUTTERFLY VANE
@ = CHECK VALVE
= FLEX CPLO,
1D = catcn exsn
©) = Flow/wac weTeR
PPC) = POWER POLE
© = STORM DORAN MANHOLE
© = SEWER MANHOLE

SL—O = TRIER Us
WWD = WATER METER
[Gert = szove crouno Pre

7 = SINGLE POLE SIGN

[” PROPERTY UNE (€) 6° Wood FENCE
Se \ —

OO00

WATER CONSERVATION ANO SERVICES
50°24" HIGH PRESSURE LAMINATE FREESTANDING AND
DISPLAYING AT 45° ANGLE

(€) PRY VAULT

one

(E) 18" MAGNOLIA TREE
TO BE REMOVE!

STATION 22 PROPOSED ABOVE GROUND SURFACE FEATURES
SCALE: 1" = 8°

‘= ASSESSORS PARCEL NUMBER
‘AGGREGATE BASE
T CONCRETE

z
aS

= EXISTING
= FLANGE BOTH ENDS
HYDRANT

a

= TYPICAL
‘= UNIFORM MECHANICAL CODE
= UNIFORM. PLUMBING CODE

AU“RRSESSSSAg4 GERI RS REE

ENGINEERING

SM-29-25

AS SHOWN

DRAWN BY:

R.0./P.R.

DESIONED BY:
S._ GONZALEZ

STATION 22

MID PENINSULA
PROPOSED STATION REDEVELOPMENT

PROPOSED ABOVE GROUND FEATURES

MID_PENINSULA

SAN MATEO
TE:
11/13/2019
PROIECT 1D:

00098594
DRAWING NO.:
MPS-5403-R3
SHT_ 3 op 4



--- page 40 ---
(N) SKYUGHT FOR PUMP ACCESS 42°x42" (TYP 3)

(N) 16° x 30" CMU PUMP BUILDING

(N) FAUX WINDOW

— (Ni UGHT POLE
(E) 6° WOOD FENCE.

={l/

(N) CWS SICNAGE

LEGEND:

- = — PROPERTY UNE

EESITIZIETD = CONCRETE PAVEMENT

(NEES = CLASS | A CRUSHED ROCK
Za = DIRT/EARTH

= MULCH

(N) CWS SIGNAGE

(N) 16° x 30" CMU PuMP BUILDING

ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS

STATION 22 PROPOSED ELEVATION

ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS

NTS.

PORTOLA DRIVE

STATION 22 PROPOSED ELEVATION
PORTOLA DRIVE

NIS.

+f
éLev. 7p

SIDE PROPERTY UNE *
ELEY. 65° \

ELEV. 7.4"

DAYLIGHT PLANE SKETCH

SCALE: 1:20

ENGINEERING

STATION 22

ELEVATIONS

MID PENINSULA —
PROPOSED STATION REDEVELOPMENT

DISTRICT:
MID PENINSULA

SAN MATEO

DATE:

11/13/2019

PROIECT ID.

00098594
DRAWING NO.:

MPS-5403-R3



--- page 41 ---
DEMOLITION LEGEND:

AFTER PHASE 1 PIPING IS COMPLETED, REMOVE ALL ASSETS
‘ABOVE AND BELOW GROUND.

‘ABANDON PIPING, CAP END(S) AND REMOVE
UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE

eas EXISTING FLOOR ELEVATION

EXISTING GRADE

LEGEND:
CABLE TV ~ BURED
CENTER UNE
EASEMENT
ELECTRICAL ~ BURIED
EXISTING WATER
(CHAINUNK FENCE
WROUGHT IRON FENCE
reer
os

Ol

PROPERTY LINE

PROPOSED WATER
RIGHT-OF-WAY (R/W)
SANITARY SEWER

STORM ORAN

STRUCTURE
TELECOMMUNICATIONS ~ BURIED
WALL = BLOCK

CONCRETE PAVEMENT
CUSS 11 AB CRUSHED ROCK
ASPHALT.

O1RT/EARTH

or = TE

™ = ELBOW, 45°

1 = ELB0H, 90°

2 = BLOWOFF (PROPOSED)

29 = BLOWOFF (EXISTING)

© = GATE VALVE (PROPOSED)

© = GATE VALVE (EXISTING)

'S = CATE vave (PRoposeo)
NORMALLY CLOSED

'S = GATE VALVE (PROPOSED)
NORMALLY OPEN

> = REDUCER (PROPOSED)

» = REDUCER (EXISTING)

© = FIRE HYDRANT (PROPOSED)

@ = FIRE HYDRANT (EXISTING)

@ = BUTTERFLY VALVE

@ = CHECK VALVE

2 = FLEX CPLG,

1D = caTcn BAsin

©) = Flow/wao METER

PPO) = POWER POLE

© = STORM DRAIN MANHOLE
© = SEWER MANHOLE

SINGLE POLE SIGN 3X0 «= TRAFFIC UcHT

ww) © WAIER MEIER

DEMOLITION NOTES:

1.

CONTRACTOR SHALL PREPARE EXISTING SITE FOR DEMOLITION AND REGRADING BY
REMOVING ALL LOOSE MATERIAL, VEGETATION, CONCRETE, GRAVEL FROM PERIMETER,
DEBRIS, AND OTHER DELETERIOUS MATERIAL AS REQUIRED TO COMPLETE
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES, AT THE APPROVAL OF CAL WATER, THIS MATERIAL CAN BE
‘STOCKPILED ON SITE AND RE-USED FOR LANDSCAPING: OTHERWISE THIS MATERIAL
SHALL BE DISPOSED OF IN A SUITABLE LOCATION OFF-SITE.

‘SPOILS MATERIAL EXCAVATED AT NEW BUILDING CAN BE RE-USED AS
COMPACTED FILL PROVIDED IT IS FREE OF ORGANIC MATTER AND MATERIAL
LARGER THAN 4 INCHES IN DUMETER

IMPORTED FILL SHOULD BE FREE OF ORGANIC MATERIAL AND SHALL NOT
CONTAIN ANY MATERIAL LARGER THAN 4 INCHES AND SHALL HAVE A PLASTICITY
INDEX (P,) OF LESS THAN 15,

THE FILL SHALL BE PLACED IN HORIZONTAL LIFTS NOT EXCEEDING & INCHES IN
LOOSE THICKNESS; MOISTURE CONDITIONED TO AT LEAST OPTIMUM MOISTURE
CONTENT, AND COMPACTED TO 90 PERCENT RELATIVE COMPACTION.

(€) PANELBOARD —)
(©) uectRic HE AS

© 18 “\

(€) 12" 1

(€) 24" cop

(€) 24" cop

(©) aur
ENTFANCE
MANWAY:

ENGINEERING

DEPARTMENT

aan
A

SM-29~-25
‘SCALE
AS SHOWN

R.0./P.R.

S._ GONZALEZ
Ticu maviEN. DATE:

— STATION 22
DEMOLITION PLAN

PHASE 1

MID PENINSULA
PROPOSED STATION REDEVELOPMENT

SAN MATEO

03/27/2020

PROJECT 1D.:
00098594

DRAWING NO.:

MPS-5411-R1



--- page 42 ---
24" METAL

GRADING EARTHWORK QUANTITIES:
CUT: 4.74 CU. YD.

FILL: 9.24 CU. YD.
NET; 4,50 CU, YO. (FILL)

NOTE:
EARTHWORK QUANTITIES ARE APPROXIMATE FOR PERMITTING PURPOSES ONLY.
NO SHRINK OR SWELL FACTORS HAVE BEEN APPLIED TO THESE VALUES. THE
CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL GRADING REQUIRED TO OBTAN
FINISH GRADES AS SHOWN.

SCALE: 1"=5'

SITE_& GRADING LEGEND:

wae, PROPOSED FINISH GRADE
(HSE) | PROPOSED FINISH FOUNDATION
+ OR FLOOR

486.28 PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE

FINAL SURFACE DRAINAGE FLOW DIRECTION
(0.5% SLOPE MN.)

—+
EXISTING CONTOUR
—— 1 — PROPOSED CONTOUR
FENCE
PROPERTY UNE
PROPOSED STRUCTURE
EXISTING STRUCTURE (TO BE REMOVED)
—--— _ Bounoary
(CED) CONCRETE PAVEMENT
CS Ndscare
co ASPHALT
CEE) -_CIRT/EARTH
AL _JA section caLLouT

ENGINEERING

(D

A

C.WS. STATION IS LOCATED ON ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS AT THE CORNER OF PORTOLA DR. SAN MATEO, CA, PARCEL
MAP NO. 306, VOLUME 62, PAGE 47, SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS. APN IS 039-332-200.
LAA DAD A NAN
. ‘SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR AONERING TO AO COMPLYING WITH LOCKL GOVERNING AGENCY PERWT
RESTRICTIONS, WHICH MAY AFFECT ALLOWABLE WORKING HOURS AND NOISE LEVELS.

MZ

>
>)

CONTRACTOR SHALL BECOME FAMILIAR WITH PROJECT SURROUNDINGS, WORKING CONDITIONS, AND SITE LIMITATIONS AND
WILL INCLUDE ALLOWANCES IN THEIR BID TO COVER ANY PROJECT CONSTRAINTS.

4. CONTRACTOR SHALL APPLY CALIFORNIA STORMWATER QUALITY ASSOCIATION

AT WW CABMPHANDBOOKS. COM,
PRACTICES MAY OR MAY NOT BE SHOWN ON THIS SITE PLAN. SEE NOTES 15 AND 16,
5. CONTRACTOR TO CONTACT "UNDERGROUND SERVICES ALERT" 48 HOURS PRIOR TO ANY EXCAVATION.
6. IT SHALL BE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR TO VERIFY THE EXACT LOCATION AND DEPTH OF ALL EXISTING
‘UTUTES.

7. THE UST OF MATERIALS FOR THIS PROJECT IS FOR REFERENCE PURPOSES ONLY, AND IS NOT INTENDED AS A FULL
TAKE-OFF OF ALL MATERIALS REQUIRED TO COMPLETE THE PROJECT AS PER CWS CO. STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.

8, ASPHALT CONCRETE TO BE TYPE il, CLASS C2, GRADE PG 64~10 PER PWS! (PUBLIC WORKS STANDARDS, INC.)
STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS (THF “GRFENAOOK"). PLACE ASPHALT ON CL 2 AGGREGATE RASF (AR) COMPACTED TO aS
RELATIVE COMPACTION,

9. THERE SHALL BE MINIMUM OF 8° OF CLASS 2 AGGREGATE BASE (AB) UNDER ANY PROPOSED FOUNDATION OR PAVEMENT
TO 95% RELATIVE COMPACTION.

10, MAINTENANCE AREA SHALL BE GRADED TO 4° BELOW PROPOSED FINAL ELEVATIONS AND THEN SCARIFIED, WATERED AND
COMPACTED TO 85% RELATIVE COMPACTION PER ASTM 01557. PLACE 4° OF CLASS 2 AB. COMPACTED TO 90% RELATIVE
coMPACTON THE ENTIRE SITE, EXCEPT STEEP SLOPES AND EQUIPMENT AREAS, IS TO BE CONSIDERED MAINTENANCE

11, CONTRACTOR SHALL GRADE THE SITE TO FINAL ELEVATIONS SHOWN FOR PROPER SURFACE DRAINAGE. FINAL GRADING
‘SHALL ALLOW SURFACE DRAINAGE TO AVOID ORAINAGE TO THE ADJACENT PROPERTIES. FINAL GRADES MAY BE ADJUSTED
‘AS NEEDED IN THE FIELD TO BALANCE CUTS AND FILLS.

12. IMPORT FLL:

IMPORTED FILL MATERIAL FOR BUILDING AND DRIVEWAY SHALL CONSIST OF ESSENTIALLY GRANULAR, SILTY SANDS
WITH LOW EXPANSION POTENTIAL AND FREE OF GRASSES, WEEDS, ROCKS, DEBRIS AND SOLUBLE SULFATES IN
EXCESS OF 1,000 PARTS PER MILLION. IMPORT SOIL SHALL MEET THE FOLLOWING CRITERIA:

MAXIMUM % PASSING #200 SIEVE 50

MAXIMUM UQUID UMIT “4

MINIMUM R-VALUE 5

MAXIMUM EXPANSION PRESSURE —1(PSF

(TEST METHOD: CALIFORNIA TEST 301)

8) IMPORT FILL FOR REMAINING PORTION OF SITE SHALL BE SANDY LOAM SUITABLE FOR PLANTING.

C) IMPORTED FILL SHOULD BE FREE OF ORGANIC MATERIAL AND IT SHOULD CONTAIN NO MATERIAL LARGER THAN 4
INCHES ANO HAVE A PLASTICITY INDEX OF LESS THAN 16,

13. THE EXCAVATED ON-SITE MATERIAL IS SUITAELE AS COMPACTED FILL PROVIDED IT IS FREE OF ORGANIC MATTER AND
MATERIAL LARGER THAN 4 INCHES IN DIAMETER.

14, FAL SHOUKD BE PLACED M1 HORZOMTAL UFTS HOT EXCEEDING 8 NOES M LOOSE TMCIOESS, MOISTURE CONDITIONED
TO AT LEAST OPTIMUM CONTENT, AND COMPACTED 15 PERCENT RELATIVE COMPACTION BENEATH ALL
‘STRUCTURES, AND 90 PERCENT RELATIVE COVPACTON ‘Tsewene ‘A SITE SPECIFIC GEOTECHINCAL REPORT, IF AVAILABLE
SHALL OVERRIDE/AMEND SUCH REQUIREMENTS,

OPERATIONS DUST SHALL BE CONTROLLED. WASTEWATER GENERATED pune CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT
WORK

CONSTRUCTIONS, MAT
THAT COULD CONTAMI IF st ROGET SUL BE STORED AREAS WON JAE DESOITED TO PRET BOOSIE
YO RAINFALL AND 10° NOF ALLOW STORM WATER TO RUN ONTO THE

16. PAVEMENT CLEANINGFLUSHING OF STREETS/PARKING LOTS TO REMOVE DIRT AND CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS IS PROHIBITED
UNLESS SEDIMENT CONTROLS ARE USED. PREFERABLY, AREAS REQUIRED CLEANING SHOULD BE SWEPT,

17. SPOILS SHALL NOT REMAIN ON-SITE. DISPOSAL OF ALL PROJECT GENERATED SPOILS SHALL BE AT A FACILITY LICENSED
AND CLASSIFIED TO ACCEPT THE MATERIALS. CONTRACTOR TO PROVIDE OWNER WITH A FORMAL RECEIPT FROM THE
ACCEPTING FACILITY. ALL MATERIALS THAT WILL REQUIRE TESTING PRIOR TO DISPOSAL SHALL BE SAMPLED AND TESTED IN
ACCOROANCE WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE DISPOSAL FACILITY IN ADVANCE OF THE NEED FOR DISPOSAL.

18. ALL CONSTRUCTION TO BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH 2016 C.B.C., 2016 C.F.C., AND MOST CURRENT NFPA AND NEC AWWA

E101 & C600,
YE. SE MY OES OTHER ATHENS

21. DRIVEWAY, LOCATION AND CONSTRUCTION SHAL COMPLY WITH CITY STANDARDS. A

STATION 22

NOTES

GRADING PLAN

1. ALL DISTANCES AND DIMENSIONS ARE IN FEET AND DECIMALS OF A FOOT.
2. UNDERGROUND UTILITY LOCATION IS BASED ON SURFACE EVIDENCE.

3. BUILDING FOOTPRINTS ARE SHOWN AT GROUND LEVEL.

4. FINISH FLOOR ELEVATIONS ARE TAKEN AT DOCR THRESHOLD (EXTERIOR).

MID PENINSULA
PROPOSED STATION REDEVELOPMENT

BASIS _OF BEARINGS

COORDINATES AND BEARINGS SHOWN ARE BASED ON THE
CALIFORNIA STATE COORDINATE SYSTEM OF 1983, ZONE 3

BENCHMARK

SIDLOF SAN MATEO BENCHMARK #047—004

RAMSET NAIL & WASHER ON TOP OF CURB, WESTERLY END, NORTHWESTERLY
RETURN, ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS & 28TH AVENUE.

ELEVATION = 67.11" (ADJUSTED TO NAVO88, LEA & GRAZE ENGINEERS)

MID PENINSULA

SAN MATEO

45° 11/13/2019
(ADJUSTED TO NAVD 88 DATUM)

PROMECT ID.

00098594
DRAWING NO.:

MPS-5412-R3

SHEET 6 OF 23



--- page 43 ---
ENGINEERING

SM-29~-25
=

AS SHOWN
taney

-— STATION 22

STATION PIPING
EAST/SOUTHEAST ISOMETRIC VIEW
NIS.

=
=
>
g
ey
&
ica}
=
2
&
4
ou
o
q
ou
By
Oy

MID PENINSULA

&
Zz
ic
=
&
9
Pel
2
>
2)
Qa
2)
%
Zz
°
=
&
<
&
n
a
2)
a
°
&
ie}
io
cy

:

MID_PENINSULA

SAN MATEO
=
11/13/2019

‘PROJECT [D.:
00098594
Dame Nos
MPS-5437-R3

suri or



--- page 44 ---
REFERENCE LIST ONLY ~ CONTRACTOR TO VERIFY AND OBTAIN ALL MATERIALS REQUIRED TO COMPLETE THE PROVECT.

BILL OF MATERIALS

ary.

12° 90° ELL, FLGxPO T 4
12" 90" ELL, FLO 1256 loa
12" 90° ELL, PO W/RESTRANT GASKETS 4
12° 04, FRE 150f (CUT-TO-FT) TYP. PUMPS E & F |

DESCRIPTION

18" 45° ELL, Md W/RESTRAINED ADAPTER

18° 90° ELL, FLG-MJ W/RESTRAINED ADAPTER

18" 90° ELL, MI W/RESTRANED ADAPTER

16° AC COUPLING PER NOTE 30 ON THIS SHEET

12° Di, FRE 1509 (CUT-T0-FIT) TYP. PUMP G BY
12" Ot, FRE 150$ 1'~6" LONG 4
12° 1, FRE 150 1° LONG 2

18" BUTTERFLY VALVE, FLG, MOTOR ACTUATED (OWNER SUPPLIED)

[18° BUTTERFLY VALVE WW, MOTOR ACTUATED (OWNER SUPPLIED)
ie BUTTERFLY VALVE, MJ

From Transmission Main

Pump to Beresford

Pump to Berestord

Open 1&4
Closed-?, 3, 5&6
Pumps - F

OPERATIONAL SCENARIO MATRIX

Free tlowtoBerestord — PumptoWilshire Free flow to Wilshire}

Free flow to Beresford

Open-2 £3
Closed - 2,4, 5&6
Pumps - OFF

Scenario Matrix

Pump from Free flow from
Berestord to Berestord to Beresford to
Transmission Transmission Wilstire
Open 1&4 Open- 12,485
Closed -2, 3, 5&6 Closed ~3 & 6
Pumps - F&G Pumps-F
‘Open-183
Closed -2,4,586
Pumps -G

Refer toH.2 orl.

Pump to Wilshire

Open-1&4
Closed -2, 3,586

Open- 1&3
Closed-2,4,586

EN 12" Dl, FOE-POE 150$ (CUT-10-FIT)

18" BUTTERFLY VALVE, MixFLG W/RESTRAINED ADPTER

| Ca 112" br Pie, FRE (LENGTH TO BE DETERWNED IN aay TET GATE VALVE, Wi W/RESTRANED ADPTER )

12" BUTTERFLY VALVE, FLG

[12° GATE VALVE, PO W/1=12" RINGS, RESTRANT GASKETS
12° GATE VALVE, FLG W/RESTRANT GASKET

12" TEE, POxFLG W/3=12" RINGS, RESTRAINT GASKETS

12" TEE, MJ, FLG BRANCH, W/RESTRAINT GASKETS

112" SOUD SLEEVE Mi, 10° SLEEVE W/RESTRANED ADAPTERS

18" CAP MJ W/RESTRAINED ADAPTER
18" SOUD SLEEVE Mi, 10° SLEEVE W/RESTRAINED ADAPTERS.
18" TEE, FLG, MJ BRANCH W/RESTRAINED ADAPTER
18" TEE, MJ W/RESTRANED ADAPTER
|W" TEE, WW, W/RESTRANED ADAPTER, FLG BRANCH
/18" TR FLEX PIPE, FOE-POE (cUT-TO-Fm)

12" TRANSITION COUPLING (14° 0.0. x 12° Dl)

18 TR FLEX PIPE, PBE (CUT-10-FIt)

12°x6" HYDRANT TEE MJ W/RESTRANED ADAPTER & ASSEMBLY (PBC)
18°x12" REDUCER, FBE
12" FLANGE COUPLING ADAPTER

YOM 303-1388X12-RESS 250 PSI/ 150) ANSI FFSO FLANGE COUPUNG |
ADAPTER & 617~1388SS RESTRAINT ASSEMBLY

16°x6" HYDRANT TEE MJ W/RESTRAINED ADAPTER & ASSEMBLY (PBC)
ClleC PIPE, FBE (PIECE MARKED "A", SHEET 13 DETAL G)

Clue PIPE, FBE (PIECE MARKED “B", SHEET 13 DETAIL 6)

ClukC PIPE, FBE (PIECE MARKED “E", SHEET 13 DETAL G)

12" Di PIPE W/RESTRAINT GASKETS
8° DI PIPE W/RESTRANT GASKETS

Cl&eC PIPE, FBE (PIECE MARKED "F", SHEET 13 DETAIL G)
Clu&C PIPE, FBE (PIECE MARKED °G", SHEET 13 DETAIL G)

‘ou 304~2876X18-RESS PRS 508 ‘ANSI FFSO FLANGE COUPLING ADAPTER
& 617~2878SS RESTRAINT

£186" 18" TR-FLEX PIPE

251° 18° TR-FLEX PIPE, FRE

[As REQ‘D| GUPPER NGS

THRUST BLOCK REQUIRED FOR ALL ELL'S, TEE'S, & RE'S. REFER TO
CWS STANDARD THRUST BLOCK DETAIL AND TABLE, CWS=435~R4

TRACER WIRE 12 AWG SOUD COPPER THW INSULATED.

UNE GUARD TAPE

‘AS REQ'O TRACER WIRE #8 AWG SOLD COPPER THW INSULATED

AS REQ'D UNE GUARD TAPE

‘AS REQ'D METAL GUARD #301

METAL GUARD #301

RES-8IT WRAP

‘AS REQ'O RES~BIT WRAP

‘AS REQ'D POLYWRAP TUBING FOR 18° DI PIPE

POLYWRAP TUBING FOR 12° DI PIPE

AS REQ'D MATERIALS IN TIE~IN DETAILS A~K

} SEMTACTOR SHALL BECOME FAL WITH I
‘SHALL INCLUDE

. WORK REQUIRING TRAFFIC CONTROL SHALL BE
OTHERWISE

. WHEN
OF THE FACTORY=MADE.
|. USE PVC £1 DEGREE AND £5 DEGREES HIGH DEFLECTION CPLGS TO ACHIEVE PROPER RADIUS FOR CURVES. 00 NOT

Pumps -F&G Pumps -G
Open-1,2.485
Closed 3&6
Pumps-F

Free flow to Wilshire: RofertoH.1or|.1

Open 1
Closed -3,(2) 4,586
Pumps -G
Open-2&5
Closed. 3(1) &4(6)
Pumps - OFF

Pump from Beresford to Transmission

Open-2,3, &6
Closed-1.4, &5
Pumps -F

Open-2,386
Closed-1,4,&5

Free flow from Beresford to Transmission

‘Open - 1&3 or 284, 6
Closed -5
Pumps - OFF

Pump from Beresford to Wilshire

SCENARIO MATRIX (W/ZONES TIED TOGETHER)

Open-1,2,3,&5
Closed 4 &6
Pumps- OFF

Open-2,4,5&6
Closed - Lor
Pumps- OFF

Free Flow (ALL ZONES)

GENERAL

ROJECT SURROUNDINGS, WORKING CONDITIONS, ANO SITE LIMITATIONS AND
ALLOWANC(S IN THEIR BID TO COVER ANY PROJECT CONSTRAINTS.

. CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ADHERING TO AND COMPLYING WITH LOCAL GOVERNING AGENCY PERMIT

RESTRICTIONS, WHICH MAY AFFECT ALLOWABLE WORKING HOURS AND NOISE LEVELS.

CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVDE TRAFFIC CONTROL AS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LOCAL GOVERNING AGENCY ANO SHALL SUBMIT
‘A TRAFFIC CONTROL PLAN PER CALTRANS STANDARDS TO GOVERNING AGENCY (AS REQUIRED) PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.

COMOUCTED GETWEEN THE HOURS OF 8:30 AM. AND 3:50 Pl, MONDAY
THRU FRIDAY, OR AS ‘AUTHORIZED BY LOCAL GOVERNING AGENCY REPRESENT

. CONTRACTOR SHALL APPLY NPDES BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES TO PREVENT CHLORINATED WATER AND SEDIMENT FROM

ENTERING NAVIGABLE WATERWAYS. CONTRACTOR TO SUBMIT A STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP),
INCLUDING DUST CONTROL, TO OWNER FOR APPROVAL WITHIN 5 WORKING DAYS OF AWARD OF CONTRACT AND PRIOR TO
ANY SOIL. DISTURBANCE. SIE SPECIFICATIONS FOR DETALS.

CONTRACTOR TO CONTACT "UNDERGROUND SERVICE ALERT" 48 HOURS PRIOR TO ANY EXCAVATION.

. fT SHALL BE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR TO VERIFY THE EXACT LOCATION AND DEPTH OF ALL EXISTING

. TRENCHES TO BE SHORED IN ACCORDANCE WITH CALIFORNIA OSHA REGULATIONS,
. PLACE A CONTINUOUS WIRE AND STRIP OF DETECTOR TAPE OVER ALL PIPES AND EXTEND UP INTO ALL VALVE BOXES,

TRACER WIRE IS REQUIRED ON ALL PIPE. (SEE DWG. CW-BS0-Ré).

). SEE OWG, CW-435 FOR TPICAL THRUST BLOCK INSTALLATION,

= FACILITIES SEPARATION:

‘A WATER MAIN SHALL BE INSTALLED AT LEAST 10 FEET HORIZONTALLY FROM AND ONE FOOT VERTICALLY ABOVE ANY
PIPELINE CONVEYING S:WAGE (UNTREATED, PRIMARY, OR SECONDARY), DISINFECTED SECONDARY RECYCLED WATER, OR
HAZARDOUS FLUIDS.

} MATER MAN SHALL BE STALLED 4 FEET HORZONTALLY FROM AND ONE FOOT VERTICALLY ABOVE ANY PIPELINE
CONVEYING TERTIARY RECYCLED WATER OR STORM ORANAG!

"AT CROSSINGS, WATER MAIN SHALL BE CONSTRUCTED NO LESS THAN 45 DEGREES TO AND AT LEAST ONE FOOT
VERTICALLY ABOVE ANY PIPELINES INDICATED IN 11.A AND 11.8.

|. NO CONNECTION JOINTS SHALL BE MADE IN THE WATER MAIN WITHIN EIGHT HORIZONTAL FEET OF CROSSING OF ANY
PIPELINES INDICATED It 11.A AND 11.8 (OR 10 FEET IF CROSSING UNDER).

. WATER MAIN. SHALL NOT BE INSTALLED WITHIN 100 HORIZONTAL FEET OF ANY SANITARY LANDFILL, WASTEWATER
DISPOSAL POND, OR HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL SITE.

WATER MAIN SHALL NOT BE INSTALLED WITHIN 25 HORIZONTAL FEET OF ANY CESSPOOL, SEPTIC TANK, SEWAGE LEACH
FIELD, SEEPAGE PIT, UNDERGROUND HAZARDOUS MATERIAL STORAGE TANK, OR GROUNDWATER RECHARGE PROJECT SITE.

‘ALL SEPARATION DISTANCES ARE BASED FROM EDGE TO EDGE OF PIPES.
i, PROPOSED WAIN SHALL BE INSTALLED ABOVE EXISTING HOUSE SEWER LATERALS. IF BELOW FOLLOW NOTE 11D.

ASSEMBLING A PVC C~900 PIPE TO_AN IRON FITTING (PUSH-ON OR MECHANICAL JOINT), REMOVE ALL BUT d INCH
BEVEL FROM THE SPIGOT END OF THE PIPE PRIOR TO INSTALLATION.

OEFLECT PIPE AT

|. VALVE CANS AND COVERS SHALL BE PLACED OVER ALL VALVES. COVERS SHALL BE SET TO EXISTING FINISHED GRADE AND

RESET IF NECESSARY ONCE THE STREET IS AT FINAL GRADE. (SEE DWGS, CW-14-R6 & CW-439-R6),

1. NO VALVE COVERS ARE TO LIE IN SIDEWALKS, CROSS GUTTER, CURB _OR DRIVEWAYS. EACH SERVICE SHOULD ALSO BE

LOCATED TO PROVIDE PROTECTION TO THE METER BOX FROM VEHICLE TRAFFIC AND PARKING.

Open «2,386
Closed -1, 4,85
Pumps -F &G

PUMPING SCENARIO SUMMARY

(Assuming Pumping from Transmission Main)
= Free flow and pump to each Zone

Pump to both Zones

- Free flow to both Zones

Closed - 1, 2, Anas!

- Pump from Beresford to Transmission Main
Pump from Beresford to Wilshire

Pump from Beresford to Wilshire and Transmission
- Free flow from Beresford to Transmission

- Free flow from Beresford to both Zones

Pump E will be operated when Pump G is offline and per Pump G's control/operation parameters.

NOTES

16, PROTECT UNDERGROUND FLEXIBLE COUPLINGS, BARE STEEL, MJ x MJ SLEEVES, AND ALL BOLTS (INCLUDING STAINLESS
STEEL) AS FOLLOWS:

A THE BITRE 0 OF THE ATING WAST BE ORY AND FREE OF OUST. DRT. AND OTHER FORBON MATTER, RUST OR
OTHER FOREIGN MATTER MUST BE REMOVED BY SCRAPING OR WIRE BRUSHING. WIPING WITH A ORY CLEAN CLOTH MAY
BE NECESSARY TO REMOVE THE PARTICLES FROM BRUSH CLEANING. ANY Oil OR GREASE MUST BE REMOVED BY USING
‘A-LOS RESIDUE, VOLATILE PETROLEUM SOLVENT BEFORE APPLICATION OF GREASE AND WRAPPING.

3. THE EXPOSED AREA SHOULD BE COATED WITH A HEAVY COATING OF METAL COATING OF METALGUARD 301 GREASE BY
THE GLOVE METHOD TO A THICKNESS OF AT LEAST 1/4 INCH.

. FIRMLY WRAP THE ENTIRE GREASE AREA WITH ONE LAYE, HALF-LAPPED, OF A WOVEN GLASS FILAMENT MESH (RES OR
BIT WRAP, 4 INCHES WIDE).

. APPLY A SECOND LAYER OF METALGUARO 301 GREASE ON TOP OF THE GLASS FILAMENT BY THE GLOVE METHOD TO A
THICKNESS OF AT LEAST 1/4 INCH.

=. FIRMLY WRAP THE ENTIRE GREASE AREA WITH A SECOND LAYER, HALF=LAPPED, OF THE WOVEN GLASS FILAMENT MESH.

". COVER THE ENTIRE MESH WRAPPED AREA OF THE FITTING WITH A THIRD AND FINAL COATING AT LEAST 1/4 INCH THICK
OF METALGUARD 301 GREASE BY THE GLOVE METHOD.

G. FIRMLY APPLY 2 LAYERS OF POLYWRAP, HALF-LAPPED, OVER ALL AREAS OF THE COATED ANO WRAPPED FITTING.
BACKFILLING MAY FOLLOW IMMEDIATELY AFTER THIS WRAPPING.

17, TRENCH BACKFILL AND PAVING SHALL CONFORM TO TRENCH SECTION DETAILS AND ALL GOVERNING AGENCY REQUIREMENTS,
18, NEW PIPEUNE SHALL BE INSTALLED WITH 4 FEET OF COVER, EXCEPT WHERE SPECIFIED OTHERWISE.

19, CONTRACTOR SHALL LIMIT DAILY TRENCHING OPERATIONS TO THE LENGTH OF PIPE THAT CAN BE INSTALLED AND BACKFILLED
THAT DAY. RESTORE TRAFFIC LANES AT THE ENO OF EACH WORKDAY,

20, CONTPACTOR SHULL ITAL NEW MAB! AID ADNIST FROM WOMHAL, UNE WO. GRICE TO UATCH THE BASTING FACRITES AT
‘SHALL INSTALL A TEMPORARY CAP, BLOWOFF AND BACKFLOW DEVICE AT TIE~IN LOCATIONS
for ‘SING me (SEE OWGS. CW=122-R5 & CW=638-R1). CONTRACTOR WILL TIE THE NEW MAIN FROM THIS LOCATION.

21, THE NEW PIPELINE SHALL BE TESTED AT 150 PSI FOR A PERIOD OF 4 HOURS, SEE SPECIFICATIONS TO DETERMINE EXACT
TESTING REQUIREMENTS,

22. TIE-INS TO BE MADE AT A TIME THAT IS CONVENIENT TO CALIFORNIA WATER SERVICE COMPANY AND IN COMPLIANCE WITH
THE LOCAL GOVERNING AGENCY PERMIT GUIDELINES. THE ADDMONAL COST DUE TO OVERTIME PAY SHALL BE AT CALIFORNIA
WATER SERVICE COMPANY'S EXPENSE.

23. CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE MSC. WATERAL REQURED TO COMPLETE THE TIE SUCH AS. BUT MOT LATED TO:
PROTECTION COATING MATERIAL FOR PIPE AND FITTINGS, UNEGUARD TAPE, CONCRETE FOR THRUST BLOCKS, EMBEDMENT
BACKFLE AROUND AND OVER THE PPE, PNAL BACKFLL TO MEET COMPACTION REQUREMENTS, AND PAVEMENT

24. CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE TO ABANDON ALL PIPE ENDS BY PLUGGING WITH BRICK AND MORTAR. ABANDON ALL
ae I ir Pa nal
ROMHE VOOS. REPLICE BASE ROCK AND PERMUMENT PRVEMENT AS NECESSARY. WIEN REMOVING EXESTNG FITTINGS,
CONTRACTOR SHALL ALSO REMOVE DSTI CONCRETE THRUST BLOCK

25, SPOILS SHALL NOT REMAIN ON-SITE, DISPOSAL OF ALL PROJECT~GENERATED SPOILS SHALL BE AT A FACILITY UCENSED
AMO CLASSIPED TO ACCEPT THE WATERS. CONTRACTOR TO PROVIDE OWNER WTH A FORMAL REGO FROM, THE
ACCEPTING FACILITY. ALL MATERIALS THAT WILL REQUIRE TESTING PRIOR TO DISPOSAL SHALL BE SAMPLED AND TESTED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE DISPOSAL FACILITY IN ADVANCE OF THE NEED FOR DISPOSAL.

26. THE UIST OF MATERIALS FOR THIS PROJECT IS FOR CALIFORNIA WATER SERVICE COMPANY ESTIMATING AND REFERENCE
PURPOSES ONLY, AND IS NOT INTENDED AS A FULL TAKE-OFF OF ALL MATERIALS REQUIRED TO COMPLETE THE PROJECT
PER CALIFORNIA WATER SERVICE COMPANY STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.

27. AT TIE~INS, CONTRACTOR SHALL SPRAY OR SWAB ALL FITTINGS WITH CHLORINE SOLUTION FOR DISINFECTION PRIOR TO
FINAL CONNECTIONS.

28. CONTRACTOR TO ENSURE AR. THE. PPELINE 15 REMOVED USING BUSTING OUTLETS SUCH AS FIRE HYORANTS. AND

FE CONTRACTOR (8 RESPONSELE FOR ISTALLNG AR RELEASES fF EXISTING QUILETS ARE SUFACENT

29. ALL WORK SHALL COMPLY WITH CAL WATER SPECIFICATIONS FOR MATERIALS, INSTALLATION, DISINFECTION AND
DECHLORINATION PER LATEST REVISION OF DRAWING CW-863-R6.

30. TO MAKE CONNECTIONS BETWEEN OI & AC USE ROMAC RC400, JCM 204, SMITH & BLA 415. ALL COUPLINGS AND
FLANGES ARE TO BE RATED POR 250 PSI WORKING PRESSURE,

ENGINEERING

SM-29-25

AS SHOWN

DRAWN BY
R.0./P.R.
DESIGNED BY:

S._ GONZALEZ

STATION 22
REDEVELOPMENT

GENERAL NOTES

MID PENINSULA
PROPOSED STATION
PIPING PLAN

MID PENINSULA

SAN MATEO

11/13/2019
‘PROJECT ID.:

00098594
DRAWING NO.:

MPS-5404-R3
sut_1or_7

SHEET 8 OF 23



--- page 45 ---
TEE, FUG
(WN). 12° GATE,
VALVE, NC

WELD ON BLIND FLANGE &
THRUST BLOCK:

MIN, BEARING AREA

HOW

CY: 11° 95°

SAND: 8° 6.5"

ROCK: 7° 5°

REFER TO DETAL "W" SHEET 14
OF 23, FOR METHOD OF WELDING
STEEL REINFORCING BARS.

ria raz,

Gg ©

SECTION ”A-A”

NTS.

©iza
(2) 12°

ELEV.=57.0

SHEET 14 OF 23

TO ZONE 275

PLAN VIEW

SCALE 1" = 5°

REMOVE EX. TEE
& PIPE FOR TEIN

oy)

TO BE ABANDONED

Know what's below,
Calll petore you dig,

= PIPING PLAN — PORTOLA DRIVE

CHRONOLOGY OF TASKS
& INSTALL THE BUNO FLANGE AND THRUST BLOCK AT
24° COP.

ABANDON 4” PIPE ON PORTOLA ORIVE, TIE~IN THE 6”
TO THE 12" MAIN.

INSTALL PIPE SPOOL AND COUPLINGS TO ABANDON
THE 12° C1 ON SITE,

INSTALL 18° MAIN.

THRUST BLOCK, BEARING AREA: REFER TO DETAIL "K" SHEET 14 OF 23
12" 01 PIPE

12” SOUD SLEEVE Mi, 10° SLEEVE W/RESTRANED GASKETS

[18 QUTTERFLY VALVE, MisFLG W/RESTRANED ADAPTER

18° BUTTERFLY VALVE MJ W/RESTRAINED ADAPTER
SEE DETAL "J" SHEET 14 OF 23

18" CAP MJ W/RESTRAINED ADAPTER
18" TR FLEX PIPE, FOE~POE (CUT-T0-FiT)
18” 1 PIPE, PBE (CUT-TO-FIT)

18" CLAC PIPE, FBE
(PIECE MARKED "E", SHEET 13 OF 23 DETAIL G)

18" CLAC PIPE, FBE
(PIECE MARKED “F*, SHEET 13 OF 23 DETAL G)

18" 45° ELL, MI W/RESTRAINED ADAPTER
18” SOLID SLEEVE MJ, 10° SLEEVE W/RESTRAINED ADAPTERS
18" AC COUPLING PER NOTE 30 ON SHEET 8 OF 23

18° TEE, FUG BRANCH, MJ RUN W/RESTRAINED ADAPTER

JCM 304~2878X18-RESS 250PSI/ 1509 ANS! FFSO FLANGE COUPLING
‘ADAPTER & 617287855 RESTRAINT LY

SHEET 10 OF 23 PHASE 1

MATCH LINE

|CONTRAGTOR SHALL INSTALL NEW MAIN ANO ADJUST FROM NOMINAL UNE
‘AND GRADE TO MATCH EXISTING FACIUTIES AT THIS LOCATION. THE
CONTRACTOR SHALL INSTALL A TEMPORARY CAP AND BLOW-OFF AT THIS
LOCATION

CUT & CAP
EX, PIPE

\\\\

REFER TO DETAIL
"M," SHEET 14

(6) 24° cop 6

PIPE TO BE
a
a

CUT & CAP

EX. PIPE No

(oe ~
T

TO TRANSMISSION MAIN
‘TE~IN TO EXISTING 18° ACC

SECTION 2-2

NIS.

TIE-IN DETAIL ”D”
NTIS.

ENGINEERING

SM-29-25,
‘SCALE:

AS SHOWN

STATION 22

PROPOSED STATION REDEVELOPMENT

PIPING PLAN

MID PENINSULA
PHASE 1

MID PENINSULA

SAN MATEO

=

i/ 13/2019
PROUECT 1D

00098594

DRATING NO.
MPS-5404—R2
sut_ 2 oP _7

/N SHEET 9 OF 23



--- page 46 ---
SHEET 9 OF 23 PHASE 1 - PIPING PLAN _

_———

=

REMOVE EX. TEE

@ra

(E) 6° Ct E-1205

PORTOLA DR PORTOLA DR

EXISTING 6" SS VCP
=i a

24” COP E-1279

PLAN VIEW

CUT & CAP SOLE 1 = 5°
{~~ &X. PIPE

EX. 4° AC PIPE TO
a
TLLLTS S _ x 6 a pee to &% 4" © PPE TO

>
tf BE ABANDONED BE ABANDONED
ra

aa

-—@

i
oer

&& 24° CCP PIPE BELOW
EXISTING MAIN, 6° Cl PIPE

1
2. 1 ~ 6° PVC x Ci SOLD SLEEVE Wy, 10° SLEEVE
3. 25° OF 6° PVC 6-000 PIPE (CUT-T0-FIT)

4. 1 = 6° ELL 90, PO w/2-8" RINGS

TIE-IN DETAIL ”D”

NTS.

EXISTING MAN, 12° Cl PIPE

. 1 = 12° Cx OL SOUD SLE MJ (2 TOTAL)

5° OF 12° DI PIPE (CUT TO FIT)

. 1 = 12" x 6° TEE PO w/ 2-12" RINGS & 1-6" RING

1 = 6" GATE VALVE, PO w/2-6" RINGS

1 = 6" PVE x C1 SOLID SLFFVE Adi, 10° SLEFVE (2 TOTAL)

(€) 6° Cl PIPE

1
2
3
4,
5. 45° OF 6" PYC C-900 PIPE [CUT TO FIT)
6
2
8

Know what's below.
Call betore you dig.

ENGINEERING

DEPARTMENT

Anes

PLAT SHEET NO.

SM-29-25
=

AS SHOWN

DRAWN BY
P, ROMO

DESIGNED BY:

S. GONZALEZ

Fen eave, DATE:

—ypy purr

fe)
ia
x
&
Z 8
n
N23
Zoe
on &
EES
< mo
ae |
a
| * Zz
za
aoe
5
nee
Z 6g
a @ ™
a |
ag
zo”
Se
un
<
mi
au

i
B

DISTRICT;
MID PENINSULA

SAN MATEO
Dare:

03/27/2020

00098594
DRAWING NO.:

MPS-5404-R1

sur 3 or 7

/ANSiEET 10 OF 23



--- page 47 ---
ENGINEERING

PASE 1 POO EE RAT OF 23
£6, ELEV.=65.89

TO ZONE 275

<9

EN
=
>.
&

>
ZINWWSAS

Pr

SV

o7
Ce

Gi’.
‘SEE FLOW METER DETAL 7 Ld Sy
“O° SHEET 13 OF 23 —_—= y R st®

DEPARTMENT

(© 12° 1 TOP cuev.6t.1
To BE REMOVE

2

YZ
cS Oh
meee "

DEMOLITION LEGEND:

FYPPAT*A— ABANDON PIPING, GAP END(S), REMOVE : nf a i i To NEW
PUMP BUILDING

[ » pop”
\ Q | SECTION "B-B

| \
b |
A/S) V) NIS.
| SBE DETAIL "D" \ ' : :

SHEET 13 OF 237 4 % " ¢ BUILDING
O84 y L : re FOUNDATION

J

TIE-IN_ DETAIL "E”

SEE TIE-IN
DETAIL "H”

tooo dole.

_H——— 4 0 TIE-IN DETAIL "G”

NTS.

Laat)
\ ae TIE-IN

DETAIL "D"

STATION 22

SECTION B-B, C-C, TIE-IN’s & PLAN VIEW CONSTRUCTION NOTES

PIPING PLAN

ase , , A_|12 90° ELL, PO W/ RESTRANT GASKETS
12" UTRARLEX CAG W/ TE RODS B |12" TEE, POxFLG BRANCH W/3~12" RINGS, RESTRAINT GASKETS
© |12" GATE VALVE, PO W/1=12" RINGS, RESTRANT GASKETS
D |12° Dl PIPE (CUT-TO-FIT) W/ RESTRAINT GASKETS
€ [12° SOUD SLEEVE Mi, 10° SLEEVE W/ RESTRANED ADAPTERS
F | 8%12" REDUCER, FRE

g_ | YoM 303-1388x12-RESS 250 PSI/ 150 ANS! FFSO FLANGE COUPLNG ADAPTER & 617~1388SS
RESTRAINT ASSEMBLY

H | 18° Of PIPE, FRE

L_|18" TR FLEX PIPE, FOE-POE

J hexe" HYDRANT TEE MJ W/ RESTRAINED ADAPTER

K | 12°x6" HYDRANT TEE MJ W/ RESTRAINED ADAPTER

w |18" TR FLEX PPE, PRE

N |CL&C PIPE, FRE (PIECE MARKED “G", SHEET 13 OF 23 DETAL “C")
P |18" SOUD SLEEVE Mi, 10° SLEEVE W/ RESTRANED ADAPTERS
0/18" TEE, MJ W/ RESTRAINED ADAPTER

SECTION D-D CONSTRUCTION NOTES
[rewppesonrnon ————C—Sd

’M |12" Ol, FRE 150f (CUT-10-FT) TYP, PUMPS E & F
88 | 12° Dl, FRE 150f (CUT-TO-Fr) TYP. PUMP G

og | CLEC PIPE, FE
(PIECE MARKED “A’, SHEET 13 OF 23 DETAL "C’)

pp | CAC. PIPE, FBE
(PIECE MARKED "B", SHEET 13 OF 23 DETAL “G*)

CLnC PIPE, FRE

PHASE 2

MID PENINSULA
PROPOSED STATION REDEVELOPMENT

INSTALL TO OCCUR APTER PHASE 2 TIE-INS.
WATER UNE IS TO BE OPERATIONAL DURING
ENTIRE PHASE 2 CONSTRUCTION.

‘INSTALL FLANGE COUPLING ADAPTER 250 PS!
W/ RESTRAINT AND INSTALL BUND FLANGE W/
THRUST BLOCK.

‘SEE DETAL "E SHEET 13,

SECTION "D-D”
PUMP CONNECTION. PROFILE VIEW

(PIECE MARKED "C*, SHEET 13 OF 23 DETAL “G")

pp | CL&C PIPE, FRE
(PIECE MARKED “D*, SHEET 13 OF 23 DETAL “G")

66 |12* 0, FOE-POE 1509 1'=6" LONG

HH |12" Dl, FBE 1509 1° LONG

W | 12° CHECK VALVE, LEVER 7 SFRING, FLG 1255
KK |12" Dl, FOE-POE 150f (CUT-'0-FIT)

UL |12* TRANSMON COUPLNG (14° 0.0. x 12° 01)
wu |12° GATE VALVE, FLO W/RESTRWNT GASKET
NN hae 90 ELL, FLCxPO

Pp |12" 90 ELL, FL 1259

00 |12* BUTTERFLY VALE, FUG

OF 23 20° DIA PUMP SUCTION
‘CAN (TYP,)

NTS.

R18" TEE, FLG, MJ BRANCH W/ RESTRAINED ADAPTER

IS | 18° BUTTERFLY VALVE, FLG MOTOR ACTUATED (CWS SUPPLIED),

JCM 304~2878X18-RESS 250PSI/ 150f ANS! FFSO FLANGE COUPLING ADAPTER & 617~2878SS
RESTRAINT ASSEMBLY (PHASE 1)

U /18" 45° ELL, M) W/ RESTRAINED ADAPTER

V_ | THRUST BLOCK, BEARING AREA REFER TO OETAL "K” SHEET 14 OF 23

W | 18° BUTTERFLY VALVE MJ W/ RESTRAINED ADAPTER, MOTOR ACTUATED (CWS SUPPLIED)
x |18" 90° ELL, FLG=M) W/ RESTRANED ADAPTER

CONTRACTOR SHALL INSTALL NEW MAIN AND ADJUST FROM NOMINAL INE AND GRADE TO MATCH
* | EXISTING FACILITIES AT THIS LOCATION, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL INSTALL A TEMPORARY CAP AND
BLOW-OFF_AT THIS LOCATION

‘*REFER TO THRUST BLOCK SCHEDULE FOR
12° PLUG CAP.

‘REFER TO DETAIL "W,” SHEET 14 OF 23 FOR
METHOD OF WELDING STEEL ROWFORCNG

DETAIL "1"

NIS.

MID PENINSULA

SAN MATEO
7
1 1/ 13/2019
PROJECT 1D.:
00098594
DRAWING NO.:
MPS-5404-R3

SHEET 11 OF 23



--- page 48 ---
PLAN VIEW

SCALE 1" = 5

SECTION E-E & TIE-IN CONSTRUCTION NOTES

[renpesornon

12° DI PIPE (CUT-T0-FIT) W/RESTRAINT GASKETS
12° SOUD SLEEVE MJ, 10° SLEEVE W/RESTRAINED ADAPTERS
18” TR FLEX PIPE, PBE

18" SOUD SLEEVE Wi, 10° SLEEVE W/RESTRAINED ADAPTERS
| re'\6" HYDRANT TEE Mk) W/RESTRANED ADAPTER

18" 90" ELL, MM) W/RESTRANED ADAPTER

|18" BUTTERALY VALVE, MJ W/RESTRANED ADAPTERS, MOTOR ACTUATED (CWS SUPPLED)

THRUST BLOCK, BEARING AREA: TBO

CONTRACTOR SHALL INSTALL NEW MAIN AND ADJUST FROM NOMINAL LINE AND GRADE TO
MATCH EXISTING FACILITIES AT THIS LOCATION. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL INSTALL A
TEMPORARY CAP AND BLOW-OFF AT THIS LOCATION

Lie TRAN

SISSION WAN

Ps
(€) 18° TR-FLEX )}

TIE-IN DETAIL _"J”

NIS.

(N) 16° 0b ELBOW 90,
Md W/ MEGA LUG

EXISTING GROUND ELEV.™65.5
(©) 6° C1, ZONE 145
(TO BE ABANDONED & REMOVED). fiev.=63.0
ELEV.=62.5,

ELEV.=60.75

(N) 12° oF
ZONE 275

(N) 18° 0 __ELEV."57.0
TRANSMISSION MAN

(€) 24” cop. /S ~

TRANSMISSION MAIN

PAC HYDRANT

FINISHED FLOOR ELEV.=66,0

(©) 12" G1
TOP ELEV, 61.6, ZONE 275
(TO BE ABANDONED & REMOVED)

an
# I the TE=INDETAL
"x" THIS SHEET
| ® ©

ENGINEERING

SM-29-25,

AS SHOWN

STATION 22

PIPING PLAN

PHASE 3

MID PENINSULA
PROPOSED STATION REDEVELOPMENT

MID PENINSULA

SAN MATEO

=

i/ 13/2019
PROUECT 1D

00098594

DRATING NO.
MPS-5404—R3
sut_$ oP _7

SHEET 12 OF 23



--- page 49 ---
DETAIL _"A”
HOSE BIB INSTALLATION

NIS.

10 HOSE 88 <— ———

1" PE
1” BALL VALVE
‘TO SPRINKLER SYSTEM:
4 4 1” BALL VALVE (TYP)

INSTALL METER BOX FOR
BALL VALVES BROOKS 437
BOX W/ CONCRETE COVER

1” WHEEL VALVE

2” SERVICE TAP

NIS.

14'-0"

12°=150f ASA FLG MORTAR
UNING UP TO INSULATED
FUG. COATING TAPERED AT
BACK OF FUG, FOR BOLT
HEADS (TYP. 3)

3° (FOR 14° & 16° PIPE FLANGES) 7/8" 9 cow

2-3/4" (FOR 12° PIPE FLANGES & SMALLER) ae Wi

=
5/8” R (FOR 14° & 16" PIPE FLANGES)
1/2" R (FOR 12° PIPE FLANGES & SMALLER) TWO ROOS PER CUP

STAY ROD DETAIL

NIS.

2-1/4" (FOR 14" & 16" PIPE FLANGES) NUMBER OF

- 4 DIAMETER = NUMBER NUMBER:

2° (FOR 12° PIPE FLANGES & SMALLER) INSTALLATION ‘OF ROD | OF RIO | PEAY HEX NUTS) | oT OPCs
1"

(2 PER ROO)

SoU (FR 1 me EUncEs)
CLIP_DETAIL vo:

NTS.
1) LENGTH OF “L” SHALL EQUAL THE LENGTH OF FOE~POE.

2) 00 OAMETER SHALL BE THE SAME OAMETER AS THE
LT,
3) USE 1/2" THICK BAR STOCK FOR CUPS.

DETAIL _"B”
STAY ROD AND CLIP DETAIL

NTS.

2° COUPLING LEAD

FREE BRASS

(HAND TicHT)

SET TOP OF VAULT 3° HIGHER
THAN EX. GROUND SO ORANAGE
WILL BE AWAY FROM VAULT

(25H x 3)

8° DI PIPE, FOE-POE,
1254 (€'=0" LONG)
CORPORATION COCK 1/2°CC X
PLACE CONCRETE BLOCKS 8" WAG wETER-1256 © QZ COPPER FLARE 1/2"
(OR BRICKS IF NECESSARY FLANGED W/REMOTE PRIMO TYPE D SOFT COPPER, ADAPTER
FOR SUPPORT (SUPPLIED BY OWNER) 1/2 X 3/8" NYLON TUBING

8” MAG METER WITH HYDRO CONDUIT (TYP. 2)
CONNECTION W/ 12” & 18” DI PIPE

NTS.

PLACE TWO BANDS OF #4 REINFORCING
ROO ALL AROUND PUMP FOUNDATION
3/4” CHAMFER ALL AROUND
EXTEND 3/4” SS.
AR VENT & VALVE
(PARALLEL TO OISCHARGE PIPE)

12° STO. a .
PLAN END PIPE FOUR #4 REINFORCING RODS,
(12" 00) . . 24° LONG WITH 4" LEG ON
BOTH ENDS

1. CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY ALL SUCTION VESSEL
DIMENSIONS PRIOR TO SETTING THE GRADE FOR THE TOP
OF PUMP FOUNDATION.

. CONTRACTOR SHALL AVOIO FLOATATION OF THE SUCTION
VESSEL BY FOLLOWING THIS PROCEDURE:

PLACE THE CONCRETE ENCASEMENT IN THREE POURS.

FLANGE
‘SPECIFIED BY THE PUMP MANUFACTURER,

1/2" cement —/
MORTAR LINING
FLUSH (TYP)

DISCHARGE HEADER-PIECE MARKED "B”

PIECE MARKED "C” (TYP.

FLANGE
1509

PIECE MARKED "D" (TYP. 3) PIECE MARKED "E”

+
STEEL
/Siz| crt. (00) *s" wat on [a
wi ra7st_ | 20 | 1/2"| 3/4"

DE
CL&C PIPE DETAILS

NTS.

INCH PER FOOT, WHICHEVER IS GREATER,
}. SEE CONDUIT DRAWING FOR EXACT LOCATION OF ALL
CONDUITS.

. FOUNDATION DIMENSIONS ASSUME 75 HP MAX, 28" SO

FLANGE, 20° DIA. VESSEL, 2,500 GPM MAX. AND 14" MAX.
BOM.

DA PUMP

DETAIL "E”
BOOSTER PUMP CONCRETE ENCASEMENT SUCTION VESSEL
AND PUMP FOUNDATION

(FOR DUCTILE IRON PIPE)

DETAIL “F”
ON-SITE TRENCH DETAIL

NIS.

CEMENT MORTAR_UNING
FLUSH TO PIPE ENDS.
(np)

PIECE MARKED "F”

1/2" | 3/4"

Va" 3/4
Leb ber]

ENGINEERING
\FOR

vy

V/s)
a
=]
Sy.
<

cS

<4

ZS
S

SITS
é

|=
S
<
XG.

>
z
w
m=
P,

DEPARTMENT

REVISIONS:
AULT DEPTH, 8.0, 3/27/20

a —

PLAT SHEET NO.

SM-29-25,

‘SCALE:
AS SHOWN

STATION 22

PROPOSED STATION REDEVELOPMENT
PIPING DETAILS

MID PENINSULA

TITLE:

MID PENINSULA

SAN MATEO

11/13/2019

‘PROUECT 1D:

00098594
DRAWING NO.:

MPS-5404—R3
suT_ 6 or 7

SHEET 13 OF 23



--- page 50 ---
ENGINEERING

THRUST BLOCK SCHEDULE
TYPE OF SOIL

[® 24" CCP TO

‘PROCEDURE:
. EXCAVATE AND EXPOSE THE EXISTING 24° CCP PIPE AT THE TIE-IN
LOCATION. THE LINE SHOULD BE SHUT DOWN AND DRAINED.

. REMOVE THE EXTERIOR MORTAR COATING FROM THE ARCA WHERE THE
CUT WILL BE MADE.

Be DETERUINED IN THE FLD. B . TAG WELD THE REINFORCING BAR IN PLACE, RIGHT AFTER THE MORTAR
4s
BEVEL
TYPICAL

COATING ENDS. CUT THE REINFORCING BARS, ALLOWING AT LEAST A FULL
COIL OF BAR TO LAP ONTO THE EXPOSED STEEL CYUNDER.

PULL THE REINFORCING BAR TAUT, MAINTAINING THE EXISTING
DESIGNED SPACING AND CONTACT WITH STEEL CYLINDER. WRAP THE

DETAIL “H”™
PORTABLE BOOSTER CONNECTION y NOE POSED STEEL CYUNDER ALLOWNG 4° OVERUP AND ANCHOR

NTS. BAR TO CYUNDER BY

CUT THE EXISTING 24” CCP. CAP THE 24° CCP TO BE ABANDONED.
6. CEMENT MORTAR OVER THE EXPOSED STEEL CYLINDER IN THE FIELD.

DETAIL"1”
12” TWO PIECE STEEL-BUTT STRAP

NIS.

AARRARORRCRRRRNN

NOTE: RING FLANGES MAY BE COUNTERBORED TO ACCOMODATE THE
a OE OO RO ED NEN DEE
DRAWN (CHECKED
ALG.
SHEET FREVISION: 3. Enorged table, otded reducer ond detci. 6/30/94 NO.
Ra Added nates 1/1179 6 NG.

TITLE:
ENGINEERING TYPICAL THRUST BLOCK
INSTALLATION
DEPARTMENT

DETAIL"M”
WELD RESTRAINT RING ON EXISTING 24” CCP

NTS.

1. Compact one level the bottom of the excavation
2, Proce & inch layer of tomped 5/4” crushed drain rocks.
Proce the vast lid onto the concrete vou,

Use provided leveling bolt (typ. of 4) to ensure cover is ot
firithed grote elevation,

Bockfil rebar frome with concrete. (5 sock concrete)
Install ladder in desired location,

STATION 22

‘H44 — DIRECT TRAFFIC VAULT
“ en 008) CLEARANCE OPENING: 46%" x 76)" . SPeorY LOAD wae, oD
PEDESTRIAN ON
206 NOOENIL TRAFIC

| c-perTH T*L0AD RATING |
i PER 0002) SarETY mR NOIE: QHECK ARMORCAST CATALOG FOR CUSTOM es a LOADING (HGH)

SIZES TO FIT TYPE 2 INSTALLATIONS.

PIPING DETAILS

‘SECURTY BOLT

‘& THRUST ASSEMBLY TO BUTTERFLY VALVE. by “ ay 2° DIA ALUMINUM

' . Ee \, ,
= somes 4 3/16" THICK STEEL
WITH TR-FLEX, SHOULD ONLY BE CONSIDERED © TEINS ANO MAY NOT NEED oe oe igi . ‘ FORMED LADDER

THRUST BLOCKS uw ZR

WITH. BEND
0 U-BOLTS WITH
LOCK WASHERS & NUTS 5/16" CARRIAGE BOLTS
(IP OF 4)

MID PENINSULA
PROPOSED STATION REDEVELOPMENT

3/8” ALUMINUN
FOUNDATION PLATE

(ex 20) poltot 4S SER

[16.72" | 22.50" | te" x 24" ROUND BAR > MID PENINSULA
so ery [78 | 30] 24 [ra Se°]17.68°T 1.2 Or] LOCKING DOWEL

SAN MATEO

11/13/2019

PROJECT ID.:
wp wwe at ae 00098594

DETAIL “J” DETAIL “L” BRawne No:
BFV ANCHOR BLOCK DETAIL CONCRETE VAULT WITH GAS SHOCKS & TORSION ASSIST COVER MPS-5404-R3
NIS. NTS.

sur_ 7 or 7

SHEET 14 OF 23



--- page 51 ---
ENGINEERING

(E) COMPRESSOR CABINET

© TRANFORNER H
CONC. PA) ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS, CITY OF SAN MATEO
SAN MATEO COUNTY, CA
APN 039-332-200

™=(E) SERWCE POLE

2.5 MILLION GALLON TANK
125'8 x 26°

2.5 MILUON GALLON TANK
125'8 x 26H

(€) ANTENN\/UGHT POLE

NEW FLOW METER
PER INSTALLATION
DETAILS ON THIS SHEET

‘3.86 MILUION GALLON TANK
161'=10°6 x 35'H

STATION 27 - BERESFORD TANK
SCALE: 1” = 20°

‘28th AVENUE, CITY OF SAN MATEO
SAN MATEO COUNTY, CA
APN 039-210-010

72” x 48° CONCRETE VAULT WITH GAS YN
‘SHOCKS & TORSION ASSIST TRAFFIC RATED
(20K LOADING) STEEL COVER
(INSTALL PER DETAIL “L")

W/KNOCKOUTS FOR 24” PIPE
(OEPTH AS REQ'D)

‘SET TOP OF VAULT 3° HIGHER THAN
CXISTING GROUND 50 DRANAGC
WILL BE AWAY FROM VAULT
(TYPICAL, ALL VAULTS)

4° x 4" WATERPROOF
JUNCTION BOX OR
1" PVC LB CONDULET

ORILL A HOLE 1/4” LARGER THAN PY
CONDUIT AND STUB IN CONOUIT AS SHOWN

” oe 1-1/0" 1/27 AT STRAGHT

AT KNOCKOUTS, THE SPACE BETWEEN
THE PIPE AND VAULT WALL SHALL BE
FILLE

(TYPICAL, ALL VAULTS)

PLACE CONCRETE wes |
OR BRICKS IF NECESSARY:
FOR SUPPORT

‘NOTE:

LOCATION TO BE DETERMINED IN THE FIELD TO
MIT CHANCES OF CONTACTING REBAR DURING
INSTALLATION OF FLOW SENSOR.

BELOW GROUND

RRR

tikes
VORRKEKE
PEA GRAVEL,

FPI MAG BY McCROMETER MODEL 394L
BIDIRECTIONAL W/CONVERTER, SUPPLIED BY CWS

FLOW SENSOR INSTALLATION

NIS.

SM-29~-25

AS SHOWN

DRAWN BY

R.0./P.R.

S._ GONZALEZ
Tacu wave. DATE:

La. || —
se — wer

STATION 22

STATION 27

PHASE 3
FLOW METER INSTALLATION

MID PENINSULA
PROPOSED STATION REDEVELOPMENT

MID PENINSULA

SAN MATEO

=

il l 13, / 2019
PROT Ds

00098594

DRAWING NO.
MPS-5497-R2
siti oF _t

SHEET 15 OF 23



--- page 52 ---
COMMON NAME

DIAMETER AT BREAST
HEIGHT (N)"

w/t

PROTECTED (x)

NOTES, RECOMMENDATIONS

CHINESE ELM

125/11

30'/20"

RECOMMEND EWR. DAR. SP, CODOMNANT LEADERS AT BASE
WITH POOR ATTACHMENT

UQUIDAMBAR

178

20'/20"

RECOMMEND EWR, DWR, SP, MULTIPLE LEADERS AT 8°

LQUIDAMBAR:

198

20'/28"

RECOMMEND EWR, EWR, SP, CODOMINANT LEADERS AT 7°
WITH POOR ATTACHMENT

UQUIDAMBAR

205

25'/30"

RECOMMEND EWR, EWR, SP

UQUIDAMBAR

us

20'/28"

RECOMMEND Ee, EWR, SP, CODOMROWT LEXOERS AT 8
WITH POOR ATTACHM!

CAMPHOR

COAST LIVE OAK

245

178

45'/50"

40'/45"

RECOMMEND EWR, EWR, SP, CODOMINANT LEADERS AT 5°
WITH POOR ATTACHMENT, GROWING INTO OAK

RECOMMEND EWR, EWR, SP, CODOMINANT LEADERS AT 5°
WITH POOR ATTACHMENT, GOOD VIGOR, INSECTS

CHINESE ELM

10

22'/25°

RECOMMEND EWR, EWR, SP, THIN CANOPY WITH LITTLE NEW
GROWTH AT TOP

MAGNOLIA

185

241/22"

RECOMMEND REMOVAL, LOW VIGOR WITH LITTLE NEW
GROWTH, STUB CUTS

MAGNOUA

30'/20°

RECOMMEND REMOVAL, LOW VIGOR WITH LITTLE NEW
GROWTH, HOLES IN TRUNK, STUB CUTS

MAGNOUA
DWR - DEAD WOOD REMOVAL

EWR — END WEIGHT REDUCTION: PRUNING TO REMOVE WEIGHT FROM LIMB ENDS, THUS REDUCING THE POTENTIAL FOR LIMB FAILURE.

24/18"

RECOMMEND EWR, DWR, SP

RCE - ROOT COLLAR EXCAVATION: EXCAVATING A SMALL AREA AROUND A TREE THAT IS CURRENTLY BURIED BY SOIL OR REFUSE ABOVE BUTTRESS ROOTS, USUALLY DONE WITH A HAND SHOVEL.
SP — STRUCTURAL PRUNING — REMOVAL OF SELECTED NON-DOMINANT LEADERS IN ORDER TO BALANCE THE TREE

(€) vauer
‘OUTUNE

(©) VAULT ENTRY

eee
TREE PROTECTION NOTES:

FENCING IS RECOMMENDED TO BE LOCATED 8 TO 10 X THE DIAMETER AT BREAST
WEIGHT (DBM) IN ALL DIRECTIONS FROM THE TREE. DBH FOR EACH TREE IS
SHOWN IN IHE AIIACHED DAIA IABLE. IHE MINIMUM RECOMMENDAIION FOR IREE
PROTECTION FENCING LOCATION IS 6 X THE OBH, WHERE A LARGER DISTANCE IS
NOT POSSIBLE. THERE ARE AREAS WHERE WE WILL AMEND THIS DISTANCE BASED
UPON TREE CONDITION AND PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION. IN MY EXPERIENCE, THE
PROTECTIVE FENCING MUST:

LEGEND: ‘A.CONSIST OF CHAIN LINK FENCING AND HAVING A MINIMUM HEIGHT OF 6
FEET.

B..BE MOUNTED ON STEEL POSTS DRIVEN APPROXIMATELY 2 FEET INTO THE
DRIPLINE. Sow.

CC. FENCING POSTS MUST BE LOCATED A MAXIMUM OF 10 FEET ON CENTER,

D, PROTECTIVE FENCING MUST BE INSTALLED PRIOR TO THE ARRIVAL OF
MATERIALS, VEHICLES, OR EQUIPMENT.

E. PROTECTIVE FENCING MUST NOT BE MOVED, EVEN TEMPORARILY, AND MUST
REMAIN IN PLACE UNTIL ALL CONSTRUCTION IS COMPLETED, UNLESS
APPROVED BE A CERTIFIED ARBORIST.

F. TREE PROTECTION SIGNAGE SHALL BE MOUNTED TO ALL INOOUAL TREE
PROTECTION FENCES,
DPE:

TYPE li TREE PROTECTION TREES STUATED IN A SMALL TREE WELL OR SIDEWALK

PLANTER PIT SHALL BE WRAPPED WITH 2 INCHES OF ORANGE PLASTIC FENCING
sinese eu AS PADQING FROM THE GROUND TO THE FIRST BRANCH WITH 2 INCH THICK

WOODEN SLATS BOUND SECURELY ON THE OUTSIDE. DURING INSTALLATION OF THE

WOOD SLATS, CAUTION SHALL BE USED TO AVOID DAMAGING ANY BARK OR

BRANCHES, MAJOR SCAFFOLD UMBS MAY ALSO REQUIRE PLASTIC FENCING AS
OUTER BOUNDRY (10x¢) RECTED BY THE CITY ARBORSST.

INNER BOUNORY (6x8)

THE SRORCT A MOOSTS IS MICHAEL YOUNG (650) 321-0202. A PROJECT
TRUNK WRAP ‘TYPE II TREE) ARBORIST D SUPERVISE ANY EXCAVATION ACTMITIES WITHIN THE TREE
q PROTECTION ZONE OF THESE TREES.

TREE PROTECION FENONG Aa ROOTS EXPOSED BY THE HAND UG EXPLORATORY TRENCH THAT ARE

UARGER THAN 1.5 INCHES IN DIAVETER SHOULD NOT BE CUT OR DAMAGED UNTIL
THE PROJECT ARBOR'ST HAS AN OPPORTUNITY TO ASSESS THE IMPACT THAT
REMOVING IHESE RUQIS COULD HAVE ON THE IKEES,

3. THE AREA UNDER THE DRP LINE OF TREES SHOULD BE THOROUGHLY IRRIGATED
TO A SOW DEPTH OF 18° EVERY 3-4 WEEKS DURING THE ORY MONTHS.

4. MULCH SHOULD COVER ALL BARE SOILS WITHIN THE TREE PROTECTION FENCING.
THIS MATERIAL MUST BE 6~8 INCHES IN DEPTH AFTER SPREADING, WHICH MUST
BE DONE BY HAND. COURSE WOOD CHIPS ARE PREFERRED BECAUSE THEY ARE
ORGANIC AND DEGRADE NATURALLY OVER TIME,

5. LOOSE SOIL AND MULCH MUST NOT BE ALLOWED TO SUDE DOWN SLOPE TO
COVER THE ROOT ZONES OR THE ROOT COLLARS OF PROTECTED TREES.

6. THERE MUST BE NO GRADING, TRENCHING, OR SURFACE SCRAPING INSIDE THE
DRIPUNES OF PROTECTED TREES, UNLESS SPECIFICALLY APPROVED BY A
CERTIFIED ARBOR'ST, FOR TRENCHING, THIS MEANS:

G. TRENCHES FOR ANY UNDERGROUND UTILITIES (GAS, ELECTRICITY, WATER,
PHONE, TV CABLE, ETC.) MUST BE LOCATED OUTSIDE THE DRIPUNES OF
PROTECTED TREES, UNLESS APPROVED BY A CERTIFIED ARBOR'ST.
‘ALTERNATIVE METHODS OF INSTALLATION MAY BE SUGGESTED.

H, LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION TRENCHES MUST BE LOCATED A MINIMUM DISTANCE
OF 10 TIMES THE TRUNK DIAMETER FROM THE TRUNKS OF PROTECTED
TREES UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED AND APPROVED BY THE ARBORIST,

1, MATERIALS MUST NOT BE STORED, STOCKPILED, DUMPED, OR BURIED INSIDE THE
DRIPLINES OF PROTECTED TREES.

EXCAVATED SOIL MUST NOT BE PILED OR DUMPED, EVEN TEMPORARILY, INSIDE
THE DRIPUNES OF PROTECTED TREES.

). LANDSCAPE MATERIALS cone es. pcan BARK, STONES, FENCING, gO)
MUST NOT BE INSTALL TACT WITH THE BARK OF
BECHUSE OF THE RSK OF SEROUS DSEASE INFECTION.

LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION SYSTEMS MUST BE DESIGNED TO AVOID WATER STRIKING
THE TRUNKS OF TREES, ESPECIALLY OAK TREES.

«ANY PRUNING MUST BE DONE BY A COMPANY WITH AN ARBORIST CERTIFIED BY
THE ISA (INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY OF ARBORICULTURE) AND ACCORDING TO ISA,
WESTERN CHAPTER STANOAROS, 1998.

ANY PLANTS THAT ARE PLANTED INSIDE THE DRIPLINES OF OAK TREES MUST BE
OF SPECIES THAT ARE COMPATIBLE WITH THE ENVIRONMENTAL AND CULTURAL
REQUIREMENTS OF OAKS TREES. A PUBLICATION DETALING PLANTS COMPATIBLE
WITH CALIFORNIA NATIVE CAKS CAN BE OBTAINED FROM THE CALIFORNIA OAK
FOUNDATION'S 1991 PUBLICATION “COMPATIBLE PLANTS UNDER & AROUND OAKS”
DETALS PLANTS COMPATIBLE WITH CALIFORNIA NATIVE OAKS ANO IS CURRENTLY
AVAILABLE ONLINE AT:

ENGINEERING

wiGs.
L. a

STATION 22
PLAN

TREE PROTECTION

MID PENINSULA
PROPOSED STATION REDEVELOPMENT

MID_PENINSULA

SAN MATEO

03/27/2020

PROJECT 1D.:
00098594

MPS-5539-R2

/\ Sit 16 OF 23



--- page 53 ---
‘7 urbantreemanagement

Tree Inventory of

‘San Mateo Station SM-22 Alameda De Las Pulgas
‘San Mateo, CA 94025

Prepared by
Urban Tree Management, inc.
February 17, 2021

Revised June 15, 2021

(650)321.0202 | potox 971 los gatos ca 98031 |
contractors Kensa # 785000 | cert abort WARS |

ENGINEERING

Risks to Trees by Construction

Besides the above-mentioned health and structure-related issues, the trees at this site could be
at risk of damage by construction or construction procedures that are common to most
construction sites. These procedures may include the dumping or the stockpiling of materiats
‘over root systems; the trenching across the root zones for utilities or for landscape irrigation; oF
the routing of construction trafic across the root system resulting in soll compaction and root
dieback. It's therefore essential that Tree Protection Fencing be used as per the Landscape
‘Architects drawings. In constructing underground utilities, it ts essential thatthe location of
trenches be done outside the drip lines of trees except where approved by the Arborist.

Tree Protection Pian
TVPEL

Protective fencing is required to be provided during the construction period to protect trees to
be preserved. This fencing must protect a sufficient portion of the root zone to be effective.
Fencing is recommended to be located 8 to 10 X the diameter at breast height (DBH) in all
<irections from the tree, DBH for each tree is shown in the attached data table. The minimum
‘recommendation for tree protection fencing location ls 6 X the DBH, where a larger distance is
‘not possible. There are areas where we will amend this distance based upon tree condition and
proposed construction. The protective fencing must:

Consist of chainlink fencing and having a minimum height of 6 feet.

b. Bemounted on steel posts driven approximately 2 feet into the soil

€ Fencing posts must be located a maximum of 10 feet on center.

4. Protective fencing must be installed prior to the arrival of materials, vehicles, or
equipment.

€. Protective fencing must not be moved, even temporarily, and must remain in place
‘until all construction is completed, unless approved be a certified arborist.

{Tree Protection Signage shall be mounted to all individual tree protection fences.

‘TYPEN

* Type Tree Protection Trees situated in a small tree well or sidewalk planter pit, shall be
wrapped with 2-inches of orange plastic fencing as padding from the ground to the first branch
with 2-inch thick wooden slats bound securely on the outside. During installation of the wood
‘slats, caution shall be used to avoid damaging any bark or branches. Major scaffold limbs may
also require plastic fencing as directed by the City Arborist.

‘Based on the existing development and the condition and location of trees present on site, the
following is recommended:
1. The Project Arborists is Michael Young (650) 321-0202. A Project Arborist should
supervise any excavation activities within the tree protection zone of these trees.

‘San Mateo Station SM-22 Alameda De Las Pulgas.
‘San Mateo, CA 94025

Assignment

‘twas our assignment to physically inspect trees in the survey area based on a topographic map
‘provided by the client. We were to map, tag and compile data for each tree and write an
lnventory/ survey report documenting my observations.

Additionally, we were to review the “Tree Protection Plan”, drawing #MPS-5539, sheet 16 of 18
dated 3/27/2020, the “Grading Plan", “Demolition Plan”, “Plot and Elevation Plan” and confirm
the tree protection is per our recommendations.

‘Summary

This survey provides a numbered map and complete and detailed information for each tree
surveyed. There are eleven trees included inthis report. Nine ofthe trees are protected trees
under the City of San Mateo's heritage tree protection ordinance. Two protected trees are
recommended for removal.

‘Trees #20 thru #24 and #27 will require Type | tree protection fencing at six (6) times the trunk
diameter. The Type | tree protection fencing will be installed per the details on page four (4) of
this report. Trees #25 & #26 and street tree #30 will requice Type li tree protection as detailed
‘on page four (4) of this report.

‘The Tree Protection Pian has been updated below and should be updated on Drawing SMPs,
‘5539, sheet 16 of 18 dated 3/27/2020. {f this update isn’t possible, Urban Tree Management
can be onsite to inspect the tree protection and write a sign off letter so construction can
proceed.

All the trees surveyed were examined and then rated based on their individual health and
structure according to the table below. For example, atree may be rated “good” under the
‘health column for excellent/vigorous appearance and growth, while the same tree may be
‘ated “Tait/poor” in the structure column if structural mitigation is needed. More complete
descriptions of how health and structure are rated can be found under the “Methods” section
of this report. The complete list of trees and all relevant information, including their health and
‘Structure ratings, their “protected/significant” status, a map and recommendations for their
care can be found in the data sheet that accompanies this report.

‘Heanh
| excellent/igorous
“no tignificant health concerns very stable

‘showing initial or temporary ‘routine maintenance needed such as
disease, pests or lack of vitality. pruning or end weight reduction as tree
‘measures should be taken to grows
in decline, significant health issues significant structural weakness(es),
mitigation needed, mitigation may or may
\ | | not preserve the tree
Poor dead or near dead hazard

‘The trunks of the trees are measured using an arborist’s diameter tape at 48° above soil grade.
{In cases where the main trunk divides below 48°, the tree is measured (per the City of San
‘Mateo’s heritage tree ordinance) at the point where the trunks divide. In these cases, the
‘height of that measurement is given in the note’s column on the attached data sheet. The
‘canopy height and spread are estimated using visual references only.

The condition of each tree is assessed by visual observation only from a standing position
without climbing or using aerial equipment. No invasive equipment s used. Consequently, Its
possible that individual ree(s} may have intemal (or underground) health problems or
‘STIUCTUFal GefeCTS, which are NOT detectable by visual iMipection. In cases where it is Thought
further investigation is warranted, a “Yul tree risk assessment” is recommended. This
assessment may be inclasive of diling or using sonar equipment to detect internal decay and
Include dimbing or the use of aerial equipment to assess higher portions ofthe tree.

‘The health of an individual tree ts rated based on leaf color and size, canopy density, new shoot
(growth and the absence or presence of pests or disease.

Individual tree structure is rated based on the growth pattern of the tree (including whether it
{5 leaning); the presence or absence of poor limb attachments (such as co-dominant leaders);
the length and weight of limbs and the extent and location of apparent decay. For each tree, a
structural rating of fair Or above indicates that the structure can be maintained with routine
‘pruning such as removing dead branches and reducing end weight as the tree grows. A
fait/poor rating indicates that the tree has significant structural weaknesses and corrective
action is warranted. The notes section for that tree will then recommend a strategy/technique
to improve the structure or mitigate structural stresses, A poor structural rating indicates that
the tree or portions of the tree are likely to fail and that there is littie that can constructively be
‘Gone about the problem other than removal of the tree or lange portions of the tree. Very lange
2

‘trees that are rated Fair/Poor for structure AND that are near structures or in an area
frequently traveled by cars or people, receive an additional **CONSIDER REMOVAL notation
‘under recommendations. This is included because structural mitigation techniques do not
uarantee against structural failure, especially in very large trees. Property owners may or may
‘not choose to remove this type of tree but should be aware that if a very large tree experiences
a major structural failure, the danger to nearby people or property is significant.

‘Survey Area Observations

‘The property is in a residential area inthe City of San Mateo. The surveyed area is basically
‘ectangular and flat. The surveyed area is unoccupied.

‘Tree Health on This Property

Generally, the health ofthe trees inthe survey area range from fair/g006 to fair/poor. The
‘property is unoccupied and would benefit from continued irrigation and tree maintenance.
‘Individual issues andrecommendations foreach tree are listed under the "Notes column on
the accompanying dita sheet.

‘Tree Structure on This Property

‘Ideally, trees are pruned for structure when young and are property mainained to reduce end-
‘weight 2s they grow. This practice prevents excessively long, lateral branches that are prone to
breaking off due to weight or wind. As mentioned above the property is unoccupied and would
‘benefit from a regular maintenance program. The structure rating on all trees in the surveyed
area have received tair to fair/poor ratings.

Local Regulations Geverning Trees
Heritage treeis any ofthe following:

{1) Any bay (Umbellulara californica), buckeye (Aesculus spp), oak (Quercus spp),
cedar (Cedrus) oF redwood (Sequoia) tree that has a diameter of ten (10) inches or more
measured at forty-eight (48) inches above natural grade;

(2) Any tree or stand of trees designated by resolution of the City Council to be of
‘special historical value or of significant community benefit;

(3) Astand of trees, the nature of which makes each dependent on the others for
‘survival

(4) Any other tree with a trunk diameter of sixteen (16) inches or more, measured at
forty-eight (48) inches above natural grade.

SM-29~-25

AS SHOWN

Tien REN.
4)

foe wares
(CHECKED

DATE:

the b,. Lsi24/2028

APPROVED BY: DATE:

YZ eA? 6/24/2024

‘Any roots exposed by the hand dug exploratory trench that are larger than 1.5 inches in
diameter should not be cut or damaged until the project Arborist has an opportunity to
‘assess the impact that removing these roots could have on the trees.

‘The area under the drip line of trees should be thoroughly irigated to a soll depth of
18" every 3-4 weeks during the dry months.

‘Mulch should cover all bare soils within the tree protection fencing. This material must
‘be 6-8 inches in depth after spreading, which must be done by hand. Course wood chips
are preferred because they are organic and degrade naturally over time.

‘Loose soll and mulch must not be allowed to slide down slope to cover the root zones or
the root collars of protected trees.

‘There must be no grading, trenching, or surtace scraping inside the driplines of
protected trees, uniess specifically approved by a Certified Arborist. For trenching, this
‘means:

{2 Trenches for any underground utilities (gas, electricity, water, phone, TV cable,
etc.) must be located outside the driplines of protected trees, unless approved
bby a Certified Arborist. Alternative methods of installation may be suggested.

b. Landscape irigation trenches must be located a minimum distance of 10 times
the trunk diameter from the trunks of protected trees unless otherwise noted
and approved by the Arborist.

‘Materials must not be stored, stockpiled, dumped, or buried inside the driplines of
protected trees,

& Excavated soil must not be piled or dumped, even temporarily, inside the driplines of
protected trees.

9. Landscape materials (cobbles, decorative bark, stones, fencing, etc.) must not be
Installed directly in contact with the bark of trees because of the risk of serious disease

infection.

10. Landscape irrigation systems must be designed to avold water striking the trunks of
trees, especially oak trees.

111. Any pruning must be done by a Company with an Arborist Certified by the ISA
{International Society of Arboriculture) and according to ISA, Western Chapter
Standards, 1998,

12. Any plants that are planted inside the driplines of oak trees must be of species that are
compatible with the environmental and cultural requirements of oaks trees. A
publication detailing plants compatible with California native oaks can be obtained from
‘The California Oak Foundation’s 1991 publication “Compatible Ptants Under & Around
‘Oaks” details plants compatible with California native oaks and is currently available
Coline at: htp:/caliorniaoaks.ong/wp-
‘sontent/ploads/2016/04/CompatiblePiants\UnderAroundOaks oot

| certify that the information contained in this report is correct to the best of my knowledge and
that this report was prepared in good faith. Please call me if ou have questions or if can be of
further assistance.

Respectfully,

0 fd
“ITS
Michael P. Young

/
MWA

STATION 22
PLAN

TREE PROTECTION

MID PENINSULA
PROPOSED STATION REDEVELOPMENT

MID_PENINSULA

SAN MATEO

Dare:

02/18/2021

PROJECT 1D.:

00098594
DRAWING NO.

MPS-5539-R2
sut_2_ or 3



--- page 54 ---
.)

6 urbantreemanagement inc.

ASSUMPTIONS AND LIMITING CONDITIONS

| Any egal digion provided ott erbort i oamed fo be crrect_ No rexponibly is omnened for
imomers legal choracer nor any open rendered of the clit of oy ie
‘Mia orboar con ner qvarartes nr be rexponible for axa of infomation provided by thc,
‘het errata at berequred 1 ge Yestmory off oferd wut by ren of he formation provided by
tis rbere wes miner writes crengenert cre mode, khang payment cf on oddtiona fee for
serves
{om or remevol of any port of tht report bclotes the etre ripe
essenion of is reper er 0 copy threct dee nt imply right ol pbcton er we fr ony purpose by ey
ha hen the peri to whom tt odrested without writen cert f tha erborat

reper won Gimbed, undew otherwise stared. Ths orboria commer tose reypomibilty tor
Lary detece oh ch could only hove been Ghcovered by ciembing A full roet coller impaction, consiving of
‘covotng te sol rend fe Wa fo cover Me rae chor ncmeyey Dune 26, wa ot parame,
nlen otherwise voted, Th orborat comet take respomibiity fer ory root defects whch conded ony hove been
iacovered by ch an kapecian,

-rboran ore rae tpacoln who wt edconon, broladge,

‘econmand mee 0 trhorce he beauty Or! beat of eet ond eT! 1 EAE Pak of bneg reat
ee Clem ney Gecne 0 oxh of daregard he reconmenatrs off orbarat otf teak adder!
cee

‘boris comet detec every condition thet cod pony nod 0 the sre are of o vee, Tren are
Seng erganam tt fol n ea ey dorothy andervtaret Contes ore cen cen wthn weet met
below grand. Arboran come! quorerte fo ree wil be heathy or ake under ol crcamatance, or ©
sweched pers ol tm. Ubewie, remedial reaimenty, She cry mec, comet be guarcateed

‘Trecemes, prising ond removal of eer may Ivars carideratrs beyond the wpe of te orberiafs services
121 a1 property boundores, propery owner, He Ine, apues between report, On of Aes
‘Arborit come take nach comiderctom ito orca aelen compat ond ocurcte bfomation a dared to
the cxberit. An orborit shodd then be expected to recsencbly wy pon the completenen cad eoary of
te rtormaton proved

‘Trees con be managed, but they comet be convolled. To lve ex tees ito ocept some cagren of rik. The cnty
“ray fe wininote i ouCLate = wenn 419 elmer al Hes

480032 pobes #7 lt goter co 9502! | wbentvemnenagementse
cmc hens #759087 | stint tie WMA BAT) | cevtied oe hh arn 61779

Existing Tree Evaluation Schedule with Landscape Unit Values
**Must be Completed and Attached to Arborist Report

Required For Projects Involving the Removal of Trees 6” or More in Diameter for the Construction of New
Residential Dwelling Units, Building Additions or Parking Lot Additions.

An Arborist Report and an Existing Tree Evaluation Schedule with Landscape Unit Values is required for al trees with a diameter of

|, This Imentory must be prepared by an Arborist or Licensed Landscape Architect
consistent with SMMC 27.71.150 PRESERVATION OF EXISTING TREES. Please submit an excel file with the information below.
Existing Tree Evaluation Schedule:

Formula for Calculating LU Value t x x + 0.35 x ( x

Total LU Value of TreestobeRemoved: 15.09

Required Tree Planting

Zoning Code, Section 27.71 ~ Landscape, requires all projects to have a minimum ratio of tree per 400 square feet of landscaped area. Existing
trees that are a minimum of 6 inch diameter may count toward this total,

Landscape Area: ae 54 fh. + 400 =
Number of existing trees from Tree Evaluation Schedule
‘with 2 6 inch or greater diameter to be preserved:

Landscape Unit (LU) value of trees to be removed
from the Tree Evaluation Schedule:

Minimum LU value to be replaced and/or met
through payment of in-lieu fees: [a~b+cs dj ——————_ id

New Trees:

‘A “landscape unit” (LU) value equivalent to (d) above, must ether be planted on ste, or an “in-teu” fee paid to the city’s street tree planting
fund. Ifthe LU value shown at (e) is not equal or greater than (d), then an in-leu fee must be paid to the Giy’s street tree planting fund at the
ratedefined annually in the City’s Comprehensive Fee Schedule for each deficient LU.

Total LU Value of new trees fe)
"New replacement caniol CARR Gel CG ESeGemenome
trees, parking it trees or other required trees,

1f(d) is greater than (e), there will be an WW value deficit calculated as follows:

d= » LEB a pha einai dati pari win as pa REE
Current Campreharaive Fee Schedule) =

2 The Planning Application Guide

ENGINEERING

6/24/2023)
APPROVED BY: DATE:

Za w24/2028

STATION 22
PLAN

TREE PROTECTION

MID PENINSULA
PROPOSED STATION REDEVELOPMENT

MID_PENINSULA

SAN MATEO

DATES

02/18/2021

PROJECT 1D.:

00098594
DRAWING NO.:

MPS-5539-R2

ABET 18 OF 23



--- page 55 ---
OPERABLE CURB MOUNTED OPERABLE CURB MOUNTED
SKYUGHT; SEE GENERAL SKYLIGHT; SEE GENERAL
NOTE 14, NOTE 14,

MCTAL LOUVER PANCLS
SEE NOTE 9

ROOF FAN, SEE
GENERAL NOTE 11,
TP OF 3

10°-10)4"+ 24°32" FA

10-10)"

(VERIFY) WINDOW w/ FLAT]
8-0" TRIM, 6 UTES;
cw wit SEE NOTE 15,

(VERIFY)

FF, +66.50"

ROOF FAN, SEE
GENERAL NOTE
11, YP OF 3

FF. +66,50"

NORTH ELEVATION
SCALE: 1/4" o
CURB MOUNTED SKYLIGHTS CENTERED
OVER PUMP (3° OFFSET); SKYLIGHT
SELECTION TO BE DETERMINED BY
OWNER; SEE GENERAL NOTE 14,

10'~10)6"+
(VERIFY)

FF +66,50"

DOORS w/ 6'-0" x (HEIGHI AS REQ'D)
HAM. PANEL ABOVE

8 6-0" WIDE x 6'-8" OBL. H.M. LOUVERO

‘ATION

2 a= 1-0

, _CnrY ALL DIMENSIONS)

ELECTRICAL PANEL

8"x4"x16" CONCRETE BLOCK
SLUMPSTONF UNITS

(N) PUMP w/ FOR EXTERIOR WALLS

FOUNDATION;

STRUCTURAL NOTES:

GENERAL NOTES

1. ALL CONSTRUCTION NOT SPECIFICALLY DETAILED SHALL CONFORM TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE 2019 CALIFORNIA
BUILDING CODE (CBC) AND ANY LOCAL CODE REQUIREMENTS. ALL DETAILS, SECTIONS AND NOTES SHOWN ON THE
unis ‘ARE INTENDED TO BE TYPICAL AND SHALL APPLY TO SIMILAR SITUATIONS ELSEWHERE UNLESS OTHERWISE

{E CONTRACTOR SHALL COMPARE THIS ORAWING WITH EXISTING CONDITIONS AT THE SITE, AND WITH ALL OTHER
RePLICARE DRAWINGS. HE SHALL VERIFY MEASUREMENTS OF ALL EXISTING FEATURES AFFECTING HIS WORK, AND
SHALL RIPORT ANY OSCREPANCIES TO THE CAUFORNA. WATER. SERVICE, COMPANY ENGINEER FOR CLARIFICATION AND
ADJUSTMENT BEFORE PROCEEDING WITH THE WORK. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FC
VERFICATON OF ALL OWENSIONS SHOWN ON "his ORANNG Witt Ie REQUIREMENTS OF EXSTNG, CONDTONS AND
‘ALL RELATED NEW EQUIPMENT.

S_FOUNDATION PREPARATION: AREAS TO RECEIVE FILL SHALL BE SCARIFIED TO A DEPTH OF 12° AND
MOISTURE-CONDITIONED TO A MINIMUM OF 2% ABOVE OPTIMUM MOISTURE CONTENT AND COMPACTED TO A MINIMUM
90% OF “HE MAXIMUM DRY DENSITY PER ASTM D1557. THERE SHALL BE A MINIMUM OF 6” CLASS 2 AGGREGATE
BASE (A8) UNDER ANY PROPOSED FOUNDATION.

FOOTINGS SHALL BE AS DETAILED ON THE DRAWINGS, THE FOUNDATION DESIGN IS BASED UPON THE VALUES FOR
CLASS S MATERIALS LISTED IN TABLE 1808 2 OF THE CAC. THF FOOTINGS HAVE BEEN DESIGNED FOR AN ALLOWAALE
SOML BEARING PRESSURE OF 1,500 PSF (DL+LL) PLUS ONE THIRD INCREASE FOR WIND AND SEISMIC LOADS,
FOOTINGS SHALL BEAR 18” MIN. INTO FIRM UNDISTURBED ORIGINAL SOIL OR ENGINEERED FILL.

THE AGGREGATE BASE, FORMS AND SUBGRADE SHALL BE THOROUGHLY WETTED BEFORE PLACEMENT OF CONCRETE.

4, CONCRETE:
SHALL DEVELOP A MINIMUM ULTIMATE COMPRESSIVE STRENGTH OF 3000 PSI AT 28 DAYS OF AGE (DESIGN BASED ON
2500 PSi-NO SPECIAL INSPECTION REQUIRED PER EXCEPTION 2.3 IN SECTION 1705.3 OF 2019 CBC). MINIMUM
CEMENT SHALL BE 6 SACKS PER CUBIC YARD. MAXIMUM SLUMP SHALL BE 3”. ALL REINFORCING BARS, ANCHOR
BOLTS. INSERTS. AND OTHER EMBEDDED HARDWARE SHALL BE ACCURATELY SET AND SECURELY HELD IN PLACE TO
MAINTAIN POSITIONS DURING PLACEMENT OF CONCRETE. CONCRETE PAD SHALL BE WATER CURED CONTINUOUSLY FOR
7 DAYS, UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.

NO ALUMNUM CONDUIT OR PRODUCTS CONTAINING ALUMINUM OR ANY OTHER MATERIAL INJURIOUS TO THE CONCRETE
SHALL BE EMBEDDED IN THE CONCRETE.

CONCRETE INSPECTION TO BE PERFORMED BY CWS CO,

5. MASONRY:

SPECIFIEG DESIGN MASONRY STRENGTH f'm = 1500 psi, ALL CMU SHALL BE 8°x4"x16" SLUMPSTONE GRADE N
HOLLOW LOAD BEARING CONCRETE MASONRY UNITS, 1900 PSI OR GREATER, CONFORMING TO ASTM C90 OR
APPROVED EQUIVALENT. ALL BLOCKS SHALL BE ADOBE COLOR SLUMPSTONE UNITS UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE.
MORTAR SHALL BE CBC TYPE S", (1800 PSI). GROUT SHALL DEVELOP 2000 PSI MINIMUM ULTIMATE STRENGTH AT 28
DAYS AGE. BLOCKS SHALL BE LAID UP DRY IN RUNNING BOND, WITH FACE AND CROSS SHELLS FULLY BEDDED IN
WoRTAR. ALLCELLS SHALL GE SOUDLY FLED WT GROUT. THE MAMAN VIG OF Aly GROUT POUR SHALL BE
FOUR FEET.

REINFORONG STEEL SHALL BE AS NOTED ON THE PLANS, EXCEPT THAT ALL OPENINGS SHALL BE REINFORCED WITH
‘TWO 45 BARS ALONG EACH BOUNDARY ANO EXTENDING 24” BEYOND ALL CORNERS OR THROUGH DOWELS TO
FOUNDATON. HOOK HORIZONTAL REINFORCEMENT AROUND VERTICAL REINFORCEMENT AT JAMBS OR WALL ENDS WITH
STANDARD HOOK, CONSTRUCTION SHALL CONFORM TO CHAPTER 21 OF THE CBC.

6. REINFORCING STEEL:
a ‘BARS SHALL BE GRADE 60 DEFORMED BARS CONFORMING TO ASTM A615. REINFORCING BAR BENDS AND

ANDAR). HOOKS SHALL. CONFORM TO AC 318, LATEST EDITION. ALL BENDS SHALL BE SEISMIC HOOKS UNLESS
omnes SHOWN. BARS 20 FEET AND SHORTER IN LENGTH SHALL BE IN SINGLE LENGTH RUNS WITHOUT SPLICES.
BARS LOUGER THAN 20 FEET IN LENGTH SHALL BE SPLICED Witt 72 BAR OMWETER LAPS. SPUCES IN ADLACENT BAR
RUNS SHALL BE WELL STAGGERED,

7. CARFENTRY AND TIMBER:
‘A. SRUCTURAL LUMBER GRADING SHALL BE WCLB STANDARD GRADING RULES FOR WEST COAST LUMBER #17.
PLYWOOD SHALL CONFORM TO U.S. CURRENT PRODUCT STANDARD PS=1.

8, LIMBER SCHEDULE:

BEAMS, HEADERS, POSTS, WALL PLATES DOUGLAS FIR #1 LON.
RAFTERS, OF #2 OR BETTER (S4S)
2x4 STUDS AND BLOCKING OF STANOARD OR BETTER
SILLS AND LEDGERS PRESSURE TREATED OF #2

, BOLTS IN WOOD SHALL CONFORM TO ASTM A-307. SOLT HOLES SHALL BE DRILLED 1/16" OVERSIZE OF
BOLT. USE STANDARD WASHER ON ALL BEARING OF HEADS AND NUTS AGANST WOOD UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
BOLTS, NUTS AND WASHERS SHALL BE HOT-DIPPED GALVANIZED OR STAINLESS STEEL WHERE EXPOSED TO
WEATHER, BOLTS WITH UPSET THREADS ARE NOT ALLOWED.

D. BOLT TIGHTENING: ALL NUTS SHALL BE TIGHTENED WHEN PLACED AND RE-TIGHTENED AT COMPLETION OF
PROVECT, OR IMMEDIATELY BEFORE FINISHING OF CONSTRUCTION WHICH WILL MAKE THEM INACCESSIBLE.

E. HOLES IN WOOD SILLS AND PLATES OF SHEAR AND BEARING WALLS SHALL BE PLACED NEATLY IN THE CENTER
OF TWE PIECE AND SHALL NOT BE GREATER IN DIAMETER THAN ONE-THIRD OF THE WIDTH OF THE SILL OR
PLATE. NOTCHING WILL NOT BE ALLOWED. HOLES LARGER THAN NOTED ABOVE MAY BE BORED IN THE SILLS
PROVDING THE SILL IS CONSIDERED CUT IN TWO AND ANCHOR BOLTS PLACED ACCORDINGLY,

F. CUTTING, NOTCHING AND DRILLING JOISTS AND BEAMS FOR PIPES SHALL BE LIMITED TO CUTS AND BORED
HOLES NOT GREATER THAN ONE-FIFTH THE JOIST DEPTH, LOCATED AT LEAST ONE-FIFTH THE JOIST DEPTH CLEAR
FROM THE TOP AND BOTTOM, AND LOCATED NOT FURTHER FROM THE END OF THE JOIST THAN THREE TIMES THE
JOIST DEPTH, UNLESS FULLY DETALED ON PLANS.

©. WOOD FRAMING EMBEDDED IN OR ADVACENT TO CONCRETE OR MASONRY WALLS SHALL BE TREATED WITH AN
APPROVED PRESERVATIVE. LUMBER EXPOSED TO WEATHER SHALL BE PRESSURE TREATED FOR ABOVE GROUND
USE ACOORONG TO AWPA C-2_ OR OTHERWISE EFFECTVELY SEALED AND MARTANED, OR OE ALL HEART

REDWOOO. IT TYPE OF PRESERVATIVE TO BE USED FOR APPROVAL. FIELD CUTS AND HOLES SHALL BE
FIELD TREATED IN IN ACCORDANCE WITH CURRENT AWPA M=4,

H. CHU WALL SILLS SHALL BE NATURALLY DURABLE REOWOOD OR PRESSURE TREATED. ANCHOR BOLTS SHALL
BE W’ DIAMETER AND SHALL BE EWBEDOED AT LEAST 7° INTO CMU. ANCHOR BOLTS SHALL BE SPACED NOT
MORE THAT 4°-0" 0.C, THERE SHALL BE A MINIMUM OF 2 ANCHOR BOLTS PER SILL PLATE WITH ONE BOLT
LOCATED NOT MORE THAN 12" (OR LESS THAN 4°) FROM EACH END OF THE SILL PLATE

|. FRAMING HARDWARE SHALL BE AS MANUFACTURED BY SIMPSON COMPANY OR OTHER APPROVED HARDWARE
MANUFACTURER. NOTATIONS ON THE DRAWINGS REFER TO ITEMS SHOWN IN THEIR CATALOG (LATEST EDITION),
HARDWARE SHALL BE INSTALLED WITH THE NAILS AND BOLTS CALLED FOR IN THE TABLES IN THE CATALOG. IF
OTHER BRANDS ARE USED, THEY MUST BE EQUIVALENT IN ALL STRUCTURAL ASPECTS, A COPY OF THE CATALOG
MUST BE KEPT AT THE JOB SITE.

J. NALING: ALL NAILS SHALL BE COMMON WIRE NAILS UNLESS OTHERWISE SHOWN OR NOTED. SUB-DRILL
WHERE THERE |S A DANGER OF SPLITTING, NAILS EXPOSED TO WEATHER SHALL BE GALVANIZED. FOR NAJUING
SCHEDULE, SEE TABLE 2304.10.1 OF THE 2019 CBC.

8. GLULAW BEAMS:
SHALL BE DOUGLAS FIR 24F—V4 FOR SIMPLE SPANS AND 24F-V8 (FB=2400 PSI) FOR CANTILEVER AND CONTINUOUS
SPANS, UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED, OF THE SIZE AND CAMBER INDICATED ON THE DRAWINGS. ALL GLU=LAMS SHALL
BE CAMBERED TO R=2,000" UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED. ALL GLU=LAWS SHALL HAVE WET USE TYPE LAMINATING
MNESNE AND SHULL HAVE 1-1/2" LAMMATIONS, EXPOSED OR PARTWLLY EXPOSED GLU=LAM BEAMS Silt Oe
ARCHITECTURAL APPEARANCE GRADE WITH RESAWN FINISH. CONCEALED GLU-LAM BEAMS SHALL BE

APPCARAICE GRADE, SUBMIT GLU-LAM BEAM SHOP. DRAWINGS TO ENGNEER FOR REVEN AND” APPROVAL PROR TO
FABRICATON, WRAP ALL GLU-LAM BEAMS FOR SHIPPING AND FURNISH CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION FOR
VANUFACURER AND SLOPE: OF GRAN OF INDMOUAL MEMBERS. ATC CERTFICATES TO GE PROVED FOR BUILDING
DEPARTMINT OFFICIAL. HOLES FOR CONDUITS NO GREATER THAN 1-1/2" IN DIAMETER WAY BE DRILLED IN GLU-LAM
BEAMS PROVIDED NO BORING IS DONE IN THE TOP OR BOTTOM 20% OF LAMINATIONS.

9. EPOXY ANCHORS SHALL BE HILT! HIT-RE 500 V3 (ICC REPORT fESR-3814) WITH F1554 GR. 36 OR F593

STAINLESS STEEL ANCHOR RODS. EPOXY ANCHORS SHALL BE INSTALLED PER MANUFACTURER'S SPECIFICATIONS;
SPECIAL NSPECTION IS REQUIRED PER CHAPTER 17 OF THE 2019 CBC & ABOVE REFERENCED ICC REPORTS,

SPECIAL TESTS & INSPECTION SCHEDULE

1, OWNER TO SET PUMP AND CONTRACTOR TO SET PANELBOARD PRIOR TO ERECTION OF BUILDING WALLS,
COORDINATE WITH OWNER,

2, NOTIFY OWNER BEFORE PLACING CONCRETE SO THAT THE PLACEMENT OF UNDERGROUND ELECTRICAL & HYDRAULIC
CONQUITS CAN BE VERIFIED. ALL UNDERGROUND ELECTRICAL CONDUIT MUST BE INSTALLED BY OWNER APPROVED
ELECTRICAL“ CONTRACTOR’

3. VERIFY LOCATION OF ALL WALL OPENINGS, PIPE RUNS OR OTHER SITE CONDITIONS AFFECTING WORK WITH OWNER,
4. TOP OF PUMP BASE IS TO BE LEVEL. SLAB d& PUMP BASE TO HAVE A HARD TROWEL FINISH.

5, ELECTRICAL WORK: REFER TO CALIFORNIA WATER SERVICE CO. ELECTRICAL ORAWINGS AND STANDARDS, AND COMPLY
THEREWITH, ALL WORK SHALL COMPLY WITH APPLICABLE CODES.

6. PAINTING SPECIFICATIONS: (SEE TABLE BELOW). ALL WORK WILL BE DONE IN ACCORDANCE WITH CWS CO. FACILITIES

L
PAINT SPECIFICATION, CWS CO, WILL PROVIDE PAINT SPECIFICATIONS UPON REQUEST. SURFACE PREPARATION SHALL BE
DONE iN ACCORDANCE WITH ws CO. SPECIFICATIONS

ITEM SPECIFIED

PAINTING SPECIFICATIONS

CONCRETE WALLS, MASONRY UNITS
ENSH — NTEROR & BTEROR ASPS NO. 32

ENGINEERING
\\FOR N

y a", 9

a

“CALLAN

<
SS
=
=
‘FA y
ATI Keg

Al

DEPARTMENT

won;
PRIMER:
FINISH = INTERIOR: COLOR = FED. STD. 595 (30450 ~ DESERT SAND)

FINSH — EXTERIOR: COLOR — FED. STO. 595 (10070 - OARK BROWN) ASPS NO. 40

PIPES & PUMP HEADS: COLOR ~ FED. STD. 595 (16440 ~ GREY)
LOUVERS, DOORS, ETC.: COLOR ~ FED. STD. 595 (30450 ~ DESERT SAND)
ous — EXTERIOR:

ASPS NO. 37

COLOR = FED. STD. 595 (10070 ~ DARK BROWN)
Covers, DOORS, ETC: COLOR — FED. STD. $95 (10070 = DARK BROWN)
SARBON STEEL;
PRIMER:
INTERMEDIATE:
FINISH — EXTERIOR: COLOR — FED. STD. 595 (10070 ~ DARK BROWN)

ASPS NO. 28

7. HAR
BUTTS: 1 1/2" PER STANLEY #FBF-199 US260, N20
B. LOCK: SCHLAGE “L” SERIES LOCK 9456 WITH A O3 LEVER; 626 FINISH
©. DOOR STOP: GLYNN-JOHNSON W27 OR HAGER "ACCENT" 256W WALL STOP AND LEVER TYPE HOLDER ON ALL
DOORS, STAINLESS STEEL

6 moon METAL (HM) DOORS AND FRAMES :
£660 OR KREGER 18 go. 1Y" THICK, 6'-8" HEIGHT WITH METAL HEAD PANEL. ONE SET LOUVER DOOR

A DOOR:
a. Seance ee eeeo. pa e aaeieg ER eas,
Wit

& Courier
6: SHOE. PRIME COAT OVER CANVNIZE. EXT DOOR SHALL GE OPEN-ABLE FROM THE INSDE WTHOUT THE USE
OF A KEY, SPECIAL KNOWLEDGE OR EFFORT,

9. LOUVERED GABLE SHALL BE 6” DEEP "SUMSHIELD” QUIET-VENT ACOUSTIC LOUVERS w/ BIRD SCREEN ANO INSECT
SCREEN. ALL LOUVERS ARE TO BE CONNECTED TO FIXED METAL JAMBS AND PLATES w/ SHEET METAL SCREWS.
CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE OWNER THE MANUFACTURER'S DATA ON ACOUSTIC AND AERODYNAMIC PERFORMANCES,

10. CONCRETE SLAB AND PUMP FOUNDATIONS SHALL HAVE 2 COATS OF CLEAR SEALER SPEC NO. A~6,

11. CONTRACTOR TO PROVIDE & INSTALL ROOF VENTILATION FANS. VENTILATION FAN TO BE MODEL DAYTON 24]"qHP
ROOF MOUNT UP_BLAST We os VOLT VENTILATOR, GRAINGER 7A639 OR EQUAL. LOCATION TO BE DETERMINED IN FIELD
AND MOUNTED PER THE MANUFACTURER'S INSTRUCTIONS.

R A = GROUP U — DIVISION | (MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT ROOM) CONSTRUCTION TYPE = TYPE V BUILDING
(NON = RATED)

13, ROOFING: FIBERGLASS ROOF SHINGLES TO BE GAF "TIMBERLINE”, 40 YR WARRANTY DIMENSIONAL APPEARANCE
BURNT SIENNA BLEND. INSTALL PER MANUFACTURER RECOMMENDATIONS FOR CLASS "A" LOW SLOPE APPLICATION.

4. CONTRACTOR TO PROVIDE AND INSTALL SKYLIGHTS. SKYLIGHT TOBE MODEL, NO. 4247AL, MANUFACTURE!
BRisTOLe OATUEHTING SYSTEMS, SANTR AA QUNALENT ALL FASTENERS’ SHALL BE SPECAL TPE.
CONTRACTOR TO PROVE OWNER THE FASTENER TOOLS AY HE END’ OF CONSTRUCTION.

JS, CONTRACTOR TO PROVIDE AND INSTALL FAUX WINDONS. FALX WINDOWNS, SHALL BE MANUFACTURED BY IMAGINATION
. iz FLAT TRIM, & LITES, PVC AND ON
PROOFING, FLASHING & CLOSURE SHALL BE THE RESSONSIBUTY
OF THE CONTRACTOR. INSTALLATION SHALL BE PR MANUFACTURER: SPECIFICATIONS.

DESIGN LOADS

THE FOLLQWNG ITEMS SHALL BE INSPECTED, "SPECIAL INSPECTION” SHALL CONFORM TO 2019 CBC 1705, SPECIAL INSPECTION
AGENCIES AND/OR INDIVIDUALS SHALL BE RETAINED BY THE OWNER AND APPROVED BY THE BUILDING OFFICIAL PRIOR TO
ANY WORK FOR MATERIAL TESTING REQUIREMENTS, SEE SPECIFICATIONS AND/OR GENERAL NOTES. TESTING AGENCY SHALL
SEND COPES OF ALL STRUCTURAL TESTING AND INSPECTION REPORTS DIRECTLY TO THE BUILDING OFFICIAL ANO ENGINEER,

REQUIRED| REMARKS

MASONRY (\EVEL_ 3) YES [PER SECTION 1705.4 & TWS 402-16(TABLE 3.1) & 602-16 (TABLES 3 & 4)

YES __| VISUAL-INSTALLATION PROCEDURES ONLY (PER SECTION 1705.1.1)

SCOPE: GRAVITY AND LATERAL ANALYSIS FOR NEW 16'~0"x30'—0"x8'-0" TALL CMU PUMP HOUSE.

TION 1604.! TABLE 1 RISK _CATI TZ (ESSENTIAL FACILITY)

SECTION 1606 — DEAD LOADS
PUMP HOUSE 12 PSF

20 PSF
N/A

BASIC DESIGN SPEED, V (3s GUS) 102 MPH
NOMINAL DESIGN SPEED, Vip =V, (3s GUST) 79 MPH
WIND EXPOSURE 8
INTERNAL PRESSURE COEFFICIENT

‘SIMPLIFIED DESIGN WIND PRESSURE (ASCE7-16 SECTION 28.5.3), Ly

SECTION 1613 — EARTHQUAKE DESIGN DATA
LATITUDE 37.540"
LONGITUDE 122.313"
SITE CLASS o
SPECTRAL RESPONSE © 0.2 SEC PERIOD, S, 1,981
SPECTRAL RESPONSE © 1.0 SEC PERIOD, S, 0.817
SHORT PERIOD SITE COEFFICIENT © 0.2 SEC PERIOD, F, 1.200
LONG PERIOD SITE COEFFICIENT @ 1.0 SEC PERIOD, F, 1.700
MODIFIED SPECTRAL RESPONSE © 0.2 SEC PERIOD, S,, 2.377
MODIFIED SPECTRAL RESPONSE @ 1.0 SEC PERIOD, Sy 1.389
DESIGN SPECTRAL RESPONSE COEFFICIENTS, S,, (UMIT Sy, PER 1281.3) 1.109
Sy 0.926

N/A
22.0 PSF; 14.6 PSF

SEISMIC DESIGN CATEGORY

seisuic IMPORTANCE FACTOR, I,

BASIC SEISMIC FORCE RESISTING SYSTEM
RESPONSE MODIFICATION FACTOR, R
‘SEISMIC RESPONSE COEFFICIENT, C,
DESIGN BASE SHEAR

Pacific Engineering Group, In‘

DRAWN BY:
A. GARCIA
DESIGNED BY:

AG. “eypre

APPROVED BY: ‘DATE:
(eer =o
b fe eatielzo™t NOT YAUD wTHoUT

A GARCIA, GARCIA WET SIGNATURE

o000

gyro
Sar
mune
Sahai

z
i
Fi

AS NOTED

i
i
:

1
5

STATION 22
TALL CONCRETE MASONRY

MID PENINSULA —
PUMP BUILDING

16’—0”x30’—0”x8’—0”

‘TITLE:

MID PENINSULA

SAN MATEO
DATE:
02, lh 10 / 2021
PROIECT TD.:
00098594
DRAWING NO.:
MPS-5621

tort

SHEET 19a OF 23



--- page 56 ---
GALV, 1/2°~3/4" EXPANDED META. MESH
TO BE FABRICATED AFTER PIPE IS INSTALLED

PIPE OPENING ~ LOCATE IN FIELD
(PIPE DA. + 2°)

CMU WALL (FULLY GROUTED)
‘SEE TYP.

L— "U FRAME

SECTION A-A

FOR PIPE DISCHARGE ONLY,
OTHERWISE CONTINUOUS MESH SCREEN

SCREEN DETAIL —

WALA VALMLLLILL ALLLALLIDS ULILLLLEDD ULLAL LDL LD
eS oT a ee

WML

ue DIVIDER — a JAMB —
SCALE: 1° = 1'=0' 27) SCALE: 1” = 1'=0

8° CMU WALL (FULLY
GROUTED), TYP,
#4 HORIZ © 16" 0c.

#5 VERTS © 16" 0.C,
(CENTERED IN WALL)

‘SEE PLAN
Tye.

PICAL_CORNER (PLAN

SCALE: 3/4 = 1-0"

1/8"
BAR 1-1/2°x3/16"
GAL, 1/2°~3/4" EXPANDED 7
METAL MESH 12 GA WELDED <
TO STL “L" FRAME
L FRAME, 1 1% a"
GALV, WITH WELDED “ANCHOR

TAB EACH CORNER, TOP &
BOTTOM

DRY PACK ALL AROUND
(FINISH W/ TOOLED JOINT)

CMU WALL (FULLY GROUTED)
SEE @re.

HILT! HOI 3/8" ANCHOR:
EACH CORNER TOP AND
BOTTOM PER MANUF SPECS

2-5 BARS AT EACH
SIDE OF OPENING
(CMU WALL (FULLY GROUTED)

) see (4).

FILL WITH GROUT

2x6, 16 GA H.M. DOOR FRAME,
SOLID GROUT, PROVIDE 3 LEAF
ANCHORS PER JAMB, MIN,

1
ies (2) #5 BARS CONT,
© BOTTOM BEND 1'-0" EA

WAY AROUND CORNERS

(AO\TYPICAL_REINFORCEMENT AT
\ZJFIG. CORNERS (PLAN

SCALE: 3/4" = 1-0"

HM. DOOR

‘ALUMINUM THRESHOLD "PEMKO
166A" de NO. 450 SL IN
CONCRETE. REMOVE. URETHANE
FOAM FROM CHANNEL AFTER
CONCRETE IS PLACED.

DOOR SILL

SCALE: 1" = 1'=0"

NOTE: CONTRACTION JOINTS ARE
10 BE SPACED N.T.E. 16'-0"
EACH DIRECTION

PROVIDE CAULKING AS REQ'D
(OPTIONAL)

1/3 SLAB
(NESS

IIIT

ONTRACTION JOINT

‘2-45 WITH DOWELS TO
FOOTING AT EA. JAMB OF

TYP_REINFORCEMENT

AT OPENING S85 9/8 = 10

SCALE: 3/4 = 1'-0"

2x6_16 GA HM.
DOOR FRAME

Grouse (Fuuy

EAVE BEAM

METAL HEAD PANEL
TOP_OF MASONRY WALL

PEMKO §346A ORIP &
#71~B SPRING APPLY
W/ EHMS

HM. 000R

(4\DOOR_ HEAD

4" CONC.

SUB w/

#5 © 16" 0, TYP,

TYPICAL OPENING SECTION

2-95 HEADER & JAMB REINF ~
sp uneest) IND OPENINGS; EXTEND 2'-0"
2 (unwuH) BEYOND ALL CORNERS

i Ree. on° on
90 DEGREE TURN: >!
‘STIRRUP: > ‘OR FOUNDATION, TYP.

IND VERTS, TYP.

CMU WALL w/ REINF.
PER FOUNDATION PLAN, =

PLAN: TYPICAL OPENING

HOOK HORIZONTAL RENF,
[ AOU

2-f5 HEADER & JAMB REINF-
IND OPENINGS; EXTEND 2'~0"
BEYOND ALL CORNERS
OR FOUNDATION, TYP,

FOUNDATION: HOOK HORIZ.

REINF, AROUND VERTS, TYP, AROUND VERS NE

PLAN: TYPICAL PIER

Pacific Engineering Group, Inc.

3090 Bive Larkspur Lane, Sia 104 Morterey, CA 83940
ph: (@31) 333-0644

Drawn BY: cumcep wy: DATE:
A. GARCIA ALG. ce/10/e0e

DesicNED BY: 3 DATE

hy eafielzomt

A GARCIA

ENGINEERING

DEPARTMENT

TALL CONCRETE MASONRY

MID PENINSULA — STATION 22
PUMP BUILDING

16’—0”x30’—-0”x8’—0”

TITLE:

MID PENINSULA

SAN MATEO

02/10/2021

00098594
DRAWING NO.:

MPS-5621

sut_2 or 4

SHEET 19b OF 23



--- page 57 ---
UFER GROUND ANO COORDINATE WITH

BUILOING CONTRACTOR SHALL INSTALL 1]
ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR ON VERIFICATION |

CONT FTG.

OF LOCATION, SEE CONDUIT LAYOUT
DRAWING FOR EXACT LOCATION OF UFER
FOUND,

TIE UFER GROUND TO GROUND ROD
BY ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR
SEE CONDUIT LAYOUT OWG.

PANELBOARD~VERIFY DIMENSIONS. WHEN
PANELBOARD ARRIVES IN CWS FIELD YARD

UFER GROUND IN CONCRETE FOOTING

#4 REBAR CONT 20'LONG MIN.

‘SEE PANELBOARD LAYOUT DRAWING FOR

DIMENSIONS, ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR

SHALL TIE UFER GROUND TO GROUND

ROD PER NEC CODE.

1/2 "6x9" EMBED. HILT! EPOXY ANCHORS

(12 TOTAL); SEE STRUCTURAL NOTES ITEM 9.
FRIODIC VISUAL INSPECTION IS REQUIRED.

CONC, SLAB PER FOUNDATION
= \

‘SEE PLAN,
Tye.

‘8 (FULLY GROUTED) CMU WALL,
Gr

THICKENED
SUB EDGE

#4 0 12° 0G ©
BOTTOM, TYP,
GROUND ROD

UFER GROUND. RESHAPE
FOOTING TO PROVE
3° COVER

(2) #5 CONT, @ BOTTOM
FOR REINFORCEMENT @
CORNER,

se) TP,

4" CONC, SLAB w/
#3 © 16" OC. 0/
PREPARED PAD &
‘SUBGRADE, TYP.

FOUNDATION DETAIL AT PORCH

30'-0" (VERIFY ALL DIMENSIONS)

8" (FULLY GROUTED) CMU WALL
w/ #5 VERTS © 16° OC, &
#5 HORIZ. © 16" OC.
(CENTERED IN WALL), TYP.

CONC, SLAB PER FOUNDATION
PUN, TYP,

8° (FULLY GROUTED) CMU WALL,

SEE @re

RRR

CONC, SLAB PER FOUNDATION

(2) #5 CONT. @ BOTTOM
FOR REINFORCEMENT ©

SEE PLAN,
re,

SCALE: 3/4 = 1-0

4-0"

Y

1-4" WDE
CONTINUOUS:
CONCRETE FTG

16'-0"
(VERIFY ALL
DIMENSIONS)

1
K- 2'-0°x2'=0" OPENING

FOR DISCHARGE PIPE

ef DOP m.

(N) PUMP w/
FOUNDATION TO BE
PROVIDED BY CLIENT
‘SEE DETAL 'E* ON
MPS-5404, SHEET
10 OF 14, TP.

[2 CONTROL JOINT

-2'~0°x2'-0" OPENING
FOR DISCHARGE PIPE

QAE®F

4° CONC. SLAB w/ #4 © 16" 0.
EA_WAY (CENTERED IN SLAB) 0/
VAPOR BARRIER (15 MIL "STEGO WRAP|
CUSS A” OR EQUIV, of 6” FREE
ORAINING GRAVEL (3" TO 2" CLEAN
CRUSHED ROCK 0/ 90% COMPACTED
‘SUBGRADE; FOR CONTRACTION JOINT

SEE @”

(N) PUMP w/,
FOUNDATION TO BE
PROVIDED BY CLIENT

3-8" MDE
FOOTING ©

PANELBOARD

(2) #5 CONT, © TOP & BOTTOM
FoR REINFORCEMENT @ CORNER

see eS) ry.

FOUNDATION DETAIL

SCALE: 3/4" = 1-0"

9-3" PANELBOARD FOUNDATION

SEE DETAIL "E” ON
MPS-5404, SHEET
10 OF 14, TYP,

TRIM OPENINGS w/:
2-45 FULL HT EACH
SIDE TOP & BOTT.

(2) 3'-0" WIDE DOOR

WLLL LLL

' 1-4" MOE
I continuous +
CONCRETE FIG

“A

MLE
apa

1-4" woe

‘CONTINUOUS
CONCRETE FTG,

Pacific Engineering Group, Inc.

19699 Blue Larkspur Lane, Ste 104 ‘Monterey, CA 93840,
‘ph: (831) 333-0644

DRAWN BY: CHBCKED BY: Dare:

A. GARCIA AG 02/10/2te1

DESIGNED BY: ‘APPROVED DATE:
A. GARCIA kai

NOT VAUD WITHOUT
WET SIGNATURE

ENGINEERING

DEPARTMENT

REVISIONS:

>
&
Z
°
n
<
n=
SE
Zw
og
B&O
<a 2Zz0
a Oe
Nog
135
gé2
Zz 95
é
Ze*
a 3”
°o
al
qo .
°
= 8
Ra
°
a
g ©
5 al
z
DISTRICT:

MID PENINSULA

SAN MATEO
DATE:
02/10, rh 2021
PROIECT 1D.:
00098594

DRAWING NO.

MPS-5621

SHEET 19¢ OF 23



--- page 58 ---
84 © 6" OC, TP.
HI © 24" OC, TYP.
PLYWOOD PER PLAN

8d © 6" OC., TYP,
L-METAL FLASHING

2x8 FASCIA TRIM

8d INTO 2x NAILER ©
6° 0.C., TYP.

4° VENT SCREEN @ 24”
0... TYP,

ADOT #4 HORIZ,, TYP,

ASS CUP @ 48° 0.C,, TYP,

(S50 CLP © 24" 0.¢., TYP.
84 © 6° OC. INTO BLKG.,
TP.

6x BM PER PLAN SET ON 4" ORY
PACK GROUT

fone" LONG AB, © 48" 0.C.,

8” CMU_WALL (FULLY GROUTED)

SEE 1P.

PLYWOOD PER PLAN, TYP.

Ko SEAT w/ (2) TO MB's
THRU 6x RAFTER

2x BLKG w/ LS50 CLP @
24" O.., TYP.

A35 CUP © 48° 0.C,, TYP,

2x RAFTERS PER PLAN,
Ve.

Je" PREMIUM ROUGH SAWN

PLYWOOD (REDWOOD OPTION),
TP.

8d INTO 2x NAILER @
6" OC, TYP,

6x CONT BEAM PER PLAN
SET ON %" ORY PACK

GROUT w/ #816" LONG AB.

© 32° 0.C. (CNTR'SK), TYP.
He

8° CMU WALL (FULLY
GROUTED) w/ #5 VERTS ©
16" 0.C, (CENTERED IN
WALL) & #5 @ 16" 0.
HORIZ, TYP.

TOP OF WALL

Ke SEAT w/ (2) 8

MB's THRU 6x RAFTER
& (2) Text4" EMBED.
AB's w/ 2° SO. BRG.
PLATE INTO CMU WALL

PLYWOOD PER PLAN, TYP,
6x RAFTER PER PLAN, TYP.
‘3x6 P.T. SILL PLATE

w/ [0x14 LONG AB. ©
32" 0.C. (CNTS'K), TYP.

SIDES, OPEN
BOTTOM, TYP.

3x6 PLT, SILL PLATE
ANCHOR TO
1/4" PUTE

(2) Toxt4” EMBED. AB

w/ 2 SQ. BRG. & TYP,
‘8° CMU WALLS (FULLY GROUTED),

148 STRAP of PLY @ 48°
TYP. (AUGN w/ RAFTER),

PLYWOOD PER PLAN, TYP,

METAL LOUVERS w/ FRAME

8d © 6° 0, TYP.
ROOF BEAM PER PLAN
‘6x RAFTER, PER PLAN

(BOTH 16 go. GALV &

PAINTED), w/ BIRD SCREEN
18x14 WIRE MESH, TO
MATCH "SLIMSHIELD”
ACOUSTIC. LOUVERS

3x6 PT, SILL PLATE w/o

Hex14” LONG AB's ©
32° 01, (COUNTERSINK

AS REQUIRED), TYP,

CMU WALLS (FULLY GROUTED)

ste GJ ne.

4¥————v
(A3\LOUVER AT RIDGE BEAM

PLYWOOD PER PLAN, TYP,

COPPER CAP CLOSED
Top, BOTTOM & SIDES,

TIC LOUVER
SUMSHIELD QUIET=VENT
w/ BIRD SCREEN

3i6 PLT, SILL PLATE w/
f'%14" LONG AB. ©
32" 0.0, (CNTR'SK), TYP,

8° CMU WALL (FULLY GROUTED)

se Q) re

COPPER CAP CLOSED
TOP, BOTTOM & SIDES,
1.

4x POST 8C46 & C40, Tye, |

3x6 PT, SILL PLATE w/ "0 AB's
© 32” 0.C. (NOT SHOWN FOR

CARITY), TYP.

WV

——_ i

8 CMU WALL (FULLY GROUTED)

ste @re

84 © 6" OC, TYP,
6x RAFTER PER PLAN,
TP.

4%" PREMIUM ROUGH
SAWN PLYWOOD

(REDWOOD OPTION), TYP.

84 @ 6° OC, TYP,

RIDGE BEAM PER PLAN
w/ POST (BEYOND),
TP.

6 \TYP. POST DETAIL

CS16x48 STRAP 0/ PLY ©

4t" 0.C., TYP.
RAFTER), TYP.

PLYWOOD PER PLAN, TYP,

2: RAFTERS PER PLAN
w/ LUS26 HANGER, TYP.

4'8 VENT SCREENED @

2" OC.

41 POST PER PLAN w/-

(AUGN w/

8¢46 (WHERE OCCURS)

BEYOND, TYP.

a 0 6"
NAILER, TYP.

8d © 6" OC, TP.

6° PREMIUM ROUGH
SAWN. PLYWOOD
(REDWOOD OPTION),
TP.

OC. INTO 2x

RIDGE BEAM PER
ROOF FRAMING PLAN

RIOGE BEAM PER ROOF

FRAMING

PLAN, TYP.

86 @ 6" OC, TYP.

4°0 VENT SCREENED ©
24” 0.

‘2x RAFTERS PER PLAN
w/ WUS26 HANGER, TYP,

ENGINEERING

c

Ppp.

>
ww

ANS
mg
7S
=
Ss
sz
<

DEPARTMENT

A
W@W

OF #2 RAFTERS © 24” 0.C., TYP.

BELOW)

PLATE :

OBL. 2x6 DF FZ

FANS; SEE GENERAL
11 (SHEET 1), TYP
3

ROOF SHEATHING; SEE
‘SHEATHING SCHEDULE
(THIS SHEET), TYP.

R)

2x6 OF F2

DBL. 2x6 DF HZ

OBL. 2x6 OF #2

OBL. 2x6 OF #2
OF PUMP (BELOW)

OBL. 2x6 OF #2
OBL. 2x6 OF #2

JOUS 6x6 PT.

FLASHING, WATERPROOFING, &
CLOSURE PER CONTRACTOR, TYP.

ROOF SKYUGHT (BY OTHERS)
CENTERED 0/ BOOSTER, TYP.

8d © 6° OC, TYP,

OBL. 2x RAFTERS
PER PLAN, TYP.

EAVE DETAIL-@ ROOF HATCH

ROOF FRAMING PLAN

1/2

SHEAR
TRANSFER:
CLIPS

[SHEATHING NAILING
EDGE_(T.E.N.)/ FIELD

SHEATHING

ROOF .
(ay sreaTang 1/2 COX PLY.
U.ON.
ROOF
SHEATHING 1/2” COX PLY. 84 0 6" OC,
RQuoN.

1 = UNLESS OTHERWISE SPECIFIED IN DRAWINGS.
2 — AWC SOPWS-2015; TABLE 4,2A ALLOWABLE SHEAR CAPACITIES FOR BLOCKED DIAPHRAGMS (OMEGA = 2.0),
AWC SDPWS~2015; TABLE 4.2C ALLOWABLE SHEAR CAPACITIES FOR UNBLOCKED DIAPHRAGMS (OMEGA = 2.0).

‘3 = AWC SDPWS-2015; TABLE 4.3A ALLOWABLE SHEAR CAPACITIES FOR BLOCKED SHEARWALL PANELS (OMEGA = 2.0).
4 = ROOF SHEATHING SHALL BE APPLIED FACE GRAIN PERPENDICULAR TO FRAMING = TYP,
5 — CONTINUE SHEATHING AND NAILING OVER SIDE OF POST AT END OF SHEARWALL.

6 = ALL SILL PLATES SHALL BE PRESSURE TREATED DOUGLAS FIR, (U.O.N.). ALL FASTENERS, INCLUDING NUTS AND WASHERS, IN
CONTACT WITH PRESERVATIVE TREATED WOOD SHALL BE OF HOT-DIPPED ZINC-COATED GALVANIZED STEEL, STAINLESS STEEL,
SILICON BRONZE OR COPPER PER CBC SECTION 2304.10.5.1. ANCHOR BOLTS SHALL HAVE A MINIMUM OF 3°x3"x1/4" THICK PLATE

WASHER PLYWOOD JOINTS AND SILL PLATE NAILING SHALL BE STAGGERED IN ALL CASES.

7 = WHERE PANELS ARE APPLIED ON BOTH FACES OF A WALL AND NAIL SPACING IS LESS THAN 6 INCHES ON CENTER,
PANEL JOINTS SHALL BE OFFSET TO FALL ON DIFFERENT FRAMING MEMBERS OR FRAMING MEMBERS SHALL BE
‘S-INCH NOMINAL OR THICKER. NAILS ON EACH SIDE OF PANEL JOINTS SHALL BE STAGGERED.

8 = IN SEISMIC DESIGN CATEGORY D, E, OR F, WHERE ALLOWABLE SHEAR VALUES EXCEED f
‘ALL FRAMING MEMBERS RECEIVING EDGE NAILING FROM ABUTTING PANELS SHALL NOT BE THAN A
‘3x MEMBER OR TWO 2” NOMINAL MEMBERS FASTENED TOGETHER IN ACCORDANCE WITH TABLE 2304.10.1,

NAILS ON EACH SIDE OF PANEL JOINTS SHALL BE STAGGERED.

9 = ALL NAILS SHALL BE 8d COMMON NAILS (214"x.131) OR 10d COMMON (3°x.148") AS INDICATED IN SCHEDULE;
AND SHALL BE GAVANIZED, HOT DIPPED OR TUMBLED.

10 — SPECIAL INSPECTION REQUIRED FOR NAILS WITH EDGE SPACING AT 4” 0.C. OR CLOSER PER CBC SECTION 1705.12.2
WITH EXCEPTION AS NOTED.

Pacific Engineering Group, Inc.

‘9600 Bloe Larkepw Lane, Ste 104 ‘Monterey, CA 83940
(ph: (831) 333-0644

DRAWN BY:
A. GARCIA
DESIGNED BY:

CHBCKED BY: DATE:

‘APPROVED BY: DATE:

PEG JOB 4:

A. GARCIA hz _eafielaort

T, FOUNDATION SILL PLATES, &
‘SINGLE

NOT VALID WITHOUT
WET SIGNATURE

|

AS NOTED

DRAWN BY:

DESIGNED BY:

|
E
E|

Dat

Cunckey uy, Dat

dl

3
|

bs
gz
Z
)
n
=
n 2
7
Zw
& &
B
a Zz
Hoe
Hos
135
<<
g 658
°o
gi»
5
B®
°
a]
°
= 8
”
°
J
z ©
EB
9

MID PENINSULA

SAN MATEO
TE:

02/10/2021

00098594

DRAWING NO.:

MPS-5621

sut_ 4 op 4

zi

SHEET 19d OF 23



--- page 59 ---
SO CATCH
BASIN CB1

CWS PROPERTY LINE (E) WOOD FENCE

CLASS Il AB
CRUSHED ROCK

CMJ PUM

(N) 16°30
IP BUILDING

(E) 10° MAGNOLIA
\ SO CATCH
| BASIN CB2

STATION 22 PROPOSED WATER POLLUTION CONTROL

SCALE: 1" = 8’

PORTOLA

LEGEND:

D = cats: san
(= ce ROL
A Pemex
ESE) = CONCRETE PAVEMENT
(CEES = CUSS AB CRUSHED ROCK
= PH
= OIRT/EARTH

ENGINEERING

PLAT SHEET NO.

SM-29-25
‘Scala

AS SHOWN
DRAWN BY

R.OSORIO
DESIGNED BY:

S. G/B. G.
‘TECH REVIEW: DATE:

STATION 22
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL

MID PENINSULA —
PROPOSED STATION REDEVELOPMENT

DISTRICT:
MID PENINSULA

SAN MATEO

DATE:

08/26/2020

PROIECT 1D.

00098594
DRAWING NO.:

MPS-WPC-R1
sti or

SHEET 20 OF 23



--- page 60 ---
Vom

wwe”

SAN MATEO COUNTYWIDE

Water Pollution
Prevention Program

Clean Water. Healthy Community.

Materials & Waste Management

Non-Hazardous Materials

Q Berm and cover stockpiles of sand, dirt or other construction material
with tarps when rain is forecast or if not actively being used within
14 days.

O Use (but don’t overuse) reclaimed water for dust control.

Hazardous Materials

Label all hazardous materials and hazardous wastes (such as
pesticides, paints, thinners, solvents, fuel, oil, and antifreeze} in
accordance with city, county, state and federal regulations.

Q Store hazardous materials and wastes in water tight containers, store
in appropriate secondary containment, and cover them at theend of
every work day or during wet weather or when rain is forecast.

Q Follow manufacturer's application instructions for hazardous
materials and be careful not to use more than necessary. Donot
apply chemicals outdoors when rain is forecast within 24 hours.

QO Arrange for appropriate disposal of all hazardous wastes.

Waste Management

Q Cover waste disposal containers securely with tarps at the end of
every work day and during wet weather,

O Check waste disposal containers frequently for leaks and to make
sure they are not overfilled. Never hose down a dumpster or the
construction site,

O Clean or replace portable toilets, and inspect them frequently for
leaks and spills.

Q Dispose of all wastes and debris properly. Recycle materials and
wastes that can be recycled (such as asphalt, concrete, aggregate base
materials, wood, gyp board, pipe, ete.)

Q Dispose of liquid residues from paints, thinners, solvents, glues, and
cleaning fluids as hazardous waste.

Construction Entrances and Perimeter

Q Establish and maintain effective perimeter controls and stabilize all
construction entrances and exits to sufficiently control erosion and
sediment discharges from site and tracking off site,

Q Sweep or vacuum any street tracking immediately and secure
sediment source to prevent further tracking. Never hose down streets
to clean up tracking.

they apply to your project, all year long.

Equipment Management &
Spill Control

Maintenance and Parking

Qa

Q

Q

Designate an area, fitted with appropriate BMPs, for
vehicle and equipment parking and storage.

Perform major maintenance, repair jobs, and vehicle
and equipment washing off site.

If refucling or vehicle maintenance must be done
onsite, work in a bermed area away from storm drains
and over a drip pan or drop cloths big enough to collect
fluids, Recycle or dispose of fluids as hazardous waste,
If vehicle or equipment cleaning must be done onsite,
clean with water only in a bermed area that will not
allow rinse water to run into gutters, streets, storm
drains, or surface waters,

Do not clean vehicle or equipment onsite using soaps,
solvents, degreasers, or steam cleaning equipment.

Spill Prevention and Control

Q

Q

Keep spill cleanup materials (e.g., rags, absorbents and
cat litter) available at the construction site at all times.
Inspect vehicles and equipment frequently for and
repair leaks promptly. Use drip pans to catch leaks
until repairs are made,

Clean up spills or leaks immediately and dispose of
cleanup materials properly.

Do not hose down surfaces where fluids have spilled.
Use dry cleanup methods (absorbent materials, cat
litter, and/or rags).

Sweep up spilled dry materials immediately. Do not
try to wash them away with water, or bury them.
Clean up spills on dirt areas by digging up and
properly disposing of contaminated soil.

Report significant spills immediately. You are required
by law to report all significant releases of hazardous
materials, including oil. To report a spill: 1) Dial 911
or your local emergency response number, 2) Call the
Governor's Office of Emergency Services Warning
Center, (800) 852-7550 (24 hours).

Storm drat

Earthmoving

QO Schedule grading and excavation work
during dry weather.

Q Stabilize all denuded areas, install and
maintain temporary erosion controls (such
as erosion control fabric or bonded fiber
matrix) until vegetation is established.

Q Remove existing vegetation only when
absolutely necessary, and seed or plant
vegetation for erosion control on slopes
or where construction is not immediately
planned,

Q Prevent sediment from migrating offsite
and protect storm drain inlets, gutters,
ditches, and drainage courses by installing
and maintaining appropriate BMPs, such
as fiber rolls, silt fences, sediment basins,
gravel bags, berms, etc.

Q Keep excavated soil on site and transfer it
to dump trucks on site, not in the streets.

Contaminated Soils
Q Ifany of the following conditions arc
observed, test for contamination and
contact the Regional Water Quality
Control Board:
~ Unusual soil conditions, discoloration,
or odor.
~ Abandoned underground tanks.
- Abandoned wells
~ Buried barrels, debris, or trash.

Paving/Asphalt Work

QO Avoid paving and seal coating in wet
weather or when rain is forecast, to
prevent materials that have not cured
from contacting stormwater runoff,

Q Cover storm drain inlets and manholes
when applying seal coat, tack coat, slurry
seal, fog seal, etc.

Q Collect and recycle or appropriately
dispose of excess abrasive gravel or sand.
Do NOT sweep or wash it into gutters.

O Do not use water to wash down fresh
asphalt concrete pavement,

Saweutting & Asphalt/Concrete Removal

O Protect nearby storm drain inlets when
saw cutting. Use filter fabric, catch basin
inlet filters, or gravel bags to keep slurry
out of the storm drain system.

O Shovel, abosorb, or vacuum saw-cut
slurry and dispose of all waste as soon
as you are finished in one location or at
the end of each work day (whichever is
sooncr!).

Q If saweut slurry enters a catch basin, clean
it up immediately.

Construction Best Management Practices (BMPs)

Construction projects are required to implement the stormwater best management practices (BMP) on this page, as

Concrete, Grout & Mortar
Application

Q Store concrete, grout, and mortar away
from storm drains or waterways, and on
pallets under cover to protect them from
tain, runoff, and wind.

Q Wash out concrete equipment/trucks
offsite or in a designated washout
area, where the water will flow into a
temporary waste pit, and in a manner
that will prevent leaching into the
underlying soil or onto surrounding areas
Let concrete harden and dispose of as
garbage,

Q When washing exposed aggregate,
prevent washwater ‘tom entering storm
drains, Block any inlets and vacuum
gutters, hose washwater onto dirt areas, or
drain onto a bermed surface to be pumped
and disposed af properly.

Landscaping ”

O Protect stockpiled landscaping materials
from wind and rain by storing them under
tarps all year-round.

Q Stack bagged material on pallets and
under cover,

Q Discontinue application of any erodible
landscape material within 2 days before a

forecast rain event or during wet weather.

Painting & Paint Removal

Painting Cleanup and Removal

QO Never clean brushes or rinse paint
containers into a strect, gutter, storm
drain, or stream.

Q For water-based paints, paint out brushes
to the extent possible, and rinse into a
drain that goes to the sanitary sewer.
Never pour paint down a storm drain.

Q For oil-based paints, paint out brushes to
the extent possible and clean with thinner
or solvent in a proper container, Filter and
reuse thinners and solvents. Dispose of
excess liquids as hazardous waste.

Q Paint chips and dust from non-hazardous
dry stripping and sand blasting may be
swept up or collected in plastic drop
cloths and disposed of as trash,

Q Chemical paint stripping residue and chips
and dust from marine paints or paints
containing lead, mercury, or tributyltin
must be disposed of as hazardous waste,
Lead based paint removal requires a state-
certified contractor,

Dewatering

Q Discharges of groundwater or captured
runoff from dewatering operations must
be properly managed and disposed. When
possible send dewatering discharge to
landscaped area or sanitary sewer. If
discharging to the sanitary sewer call your
local wastewater treatment plant.

Q Divert run-on water from offsite away
from all disturbed areas.

Q When dewatering, notify and obtain
approval from the local municipality
before discharging water to a strect gutter
or storm drain. Filtration or diversion
through a basin, tank, or sediment trap
may be required.

Q In areas of known or suspected
contamination, call your local agency to
determine wether the ground water must
be tested. Pumped groundwater may need
to be collected and hauled off-site for
treatment ané proper disposal.

ENGINEERING

STATION 22
PROPOSED STATION REDEVELOPMENT

MID PENINSULA

08/26/2020

PROIECT 1D.

00098594
DRAWING NO.:

MPS-CBMP-R1
sti or



--- page 61 ---
SCOPE OF WORK

1, NEW STEPPING STONES W/ PEBBLES IN BLVD.)

2. NEW PLANTS

3. NEW MULCH AROUND ALL PLANTS

5. NEW PAMI PERRLES W/ LANDSCAPE FARRIC
6. NEW DRIP LINE IRRIGATION

NOTES

1,USE GREY COLOR BLUE STEPPING STONES
2. INSTALL LANDSCAPE FADRIC UNDER
3.ADD BENDER BOARD TO CONTAIN GROUND
COVER

4. ADD PAMI PERBLES

5. REMOVE ALL EXISTING PLANTS NOT TREES

(N) muLeH

(F) BRICK
BUILDING

(N) PROPOSED BUILDING

INDEX

Lt SITE PLANS
L2 PLANT PLAN
LSIRRIGATION PLANS

«N) MULeH

rh

TOR
& “Ge
I oh) rxoous

— Sue

LEGEND

STEPPING STONE-
FLAGSTONE

PEBELES

worn _/
ROCK WITH
NO SLOPE

ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS (100')

scape

1345 Howard Ave. #203
Buringane, Calif, 94010)
(650) 247-2490
C2178

CAL WATER #22
ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS
SAN MATEO,CA.

Fed, 26, 2021
PAPER SIZE 24X36
‘SCALE 3/16"=1"

L1

ENGINEERING

DEPARTMENT

STATION 22

MID PENINSULA
PROPOSED STATION REDEVELOPMENT
LANDSCAPING PLAN

TITLE:

MID PENINSULA

SAN MATEO

03/ 16/2021

‘PROUBCT 1D.

00098594
DRAWING NO.:

MPS-5623
suri or 3

SHEET 22a OF 23



--- page 62 ---
ENGINEERING

i { }| i Slophane Rourke
$ishoce ve 9

1. NEW STEPPING STONES W/ PEBBLES IN BLVD. H j | Sutin, Calf, s40t0)

2. NEW PLANTS: i (650)347-2400

3. NEW BERMS 12"-18" HIGH car 77708

4, NEW BOULDERS HOLDING SOIL 12'18" HIGH

5. NEW PEBBLES

6. NEW DRIP LINE IRRIGATION

DEPARTMENT

seve
«Ny MULCH

)
cp MuLen

dunrcd's
rnorones f \7
ony ay

|

A |
|

|

STAN tate

0
<
ug
re
#26
Ko
wis
Roe
qud
is
kz
tog
<uo
Ug
|
<

aus ser E

on 8

un

ou

z 8
ae Z
eB > <

ACACIA COUSIN ITT 1. ADD 3* OF REDWOOD MULCH AROUND ALL NEW PLANTS/EXPOSED SOIL, Ps ic)
BERGERRS CRIMSON PYGMY |2. ADD ESSENTIAL SOIL TO FLANTING AREAS, n Q fo)

CHONDROPETALUM TecToRUM |3. ADD BENDER BOARD BETWEEN DYMONDIA AND STEPPING STONES, cay
COTINUS COGGYGRIA ROYAL PURPLE |4.ADD GOPHER WIRE UNDER ALL NEW PLANTS. fea Oo
DYMONDIA MARGARATAE- Is. DISCUSS ANY CHANCES WITH THE DESIGNER. | A
ELAEAGNUS EBBINGE! GILT EDGE 6. ALL EXISTING PLANT MATERIAL TO GE REMOVED EXCLUDING TREES zo
CAREX RED ROOSTER [oo
JUNIPER SQUAMATA CARPET ° <

=
PHO
natn
Zea
Z° 4
Has

a

na

ao

Sa

29

&

enononcremum — corius ot

TITLE:

MID PENINSULA

PLANTING PLAN ine SAN_MATEO
PAPER SIZE 24X36 Te:

eae! 03/16/2021

PROMECT ID.
L 2 00098594

DRAWING NO.:

MPS-5623

SHEET 22b OF 23



--- page 63 ---
RRSATON CORAL

elagsee WN Nor as soto, oot AKO

NSE “ERSTE FROY CONTROLLER “0

MAINLINE

LATERAL LINE
HOSE BIB

VALVES

A TERIA ANE G2ES PREM TE COMTRE, ER TE A, 2° FE VA HES
INES NEE OVE VA. LAO MAY BED "OR 1 COL ANNE ON

UHR ANY COLOR AMERD LY A DPPERENE 2.28 8 BED POR Hac
~ IB GRIMGAL “MAT “+E SALIC™D BS COMPLETLY RTIRPRA. UST OPE AL MASRRGTG CONDCTORS
NEAR ALON THE BARE VETAL ANE BCE 2b THE BOLENCD 10 CONTACT WATER AATEGPRDC™
SPLCES MVEIAE.Y AFTER RSTAL.MG VALVES. GETTING THE NRE ERS NET ALL CAE PREMATARE
VALVE 56.2850 [ALR
te i to aro ah. Erg me
{gears fpr ea wa trun Buel Bu tg yeh H2 ere! Iam

tyin carpe iii 2 Feejare res PU
\Tutorials.eom VALVE 4 W RING DE DETAIL
oe! save naa on

epg trae a shacom a secre, eck whol ertoe

PLANTING AREA SF

1889 SF OF NEW PLANTS

*n3

A AMPOADE LAS PUL

VALVE 1-DRIP LINES-LOW WATER
VALVE 2-DRIP LINES-LOW WATER

VALVE 3-DRIP LINES -LOW WATER
VALVE 4-DRIP LINES-LOW WATER
VALVE S-DRIP LINES-LOW WATER

a BRASS UNION TYP.
-e BRASS UNION TYP.
~ COPPER 90 ELBOW

PROVIDE PRESSURE
REDUCER IF NECESSARY -

SET TO 50 PSI

COPPER TYP K
/— FINISH GRADE

~ SERVICE LINE

THRUST BLOCK

o—— UNION
LATERAL LINE
EMITTER VALVE
VALVE BOX

- BRICK

~ 4"DRAIN ROCK

COIL CONTROL WIRE FOR

EXPANSION

TES:
1, BUNDLE AND TAPE WIRE EVERY 10 FEET
2, PROVIDE 36" EXPANSION LOOP AT EACH WIRE
CONNECTION
PRESSURE REDUCED IRRIGATION MAIN LINE MAX.
PRESSURE 65 PSI.
PROVIDE PRESSURE REDUCER IF NECESSARY

CONCRETE TRUSTS

— WRAP ALL PIPE WITHIN

WIRE CONNECTORS

CENTER OF PLANT
TOP OF MULCH
PRESSURE COMP. DRIP EMITTER
MULCH (SEE SPECS)
— (E) GRADE

POLY ADAPTER

PVC RISER

VARIFY HEIGHT IN FIELD
GALVANIZED TIE-DOWN STAKE
STAKE TUBING TO FINISH GRADE
AS REQ'D - MAX SPACING 5-0"

LATERAL SOLID PVC PIPE
DEPTH PER SPECIFICATION

IRRIGATION CONTROLLERR
MOUNTED TO WALL

ELECTRICAL POWER IN 3/4"
RIGID EMT CONDUIT W/L SWEEP

ACIAL:
INSTALL ON / OFF SWITCH AND
DUAL OUTLET (110V) CONNECT
TO POWER LINE
3/4" CONTROL WIRE CONDUIT
W/L SWEEP

/ FINISH GRADE
x

POLY DRIP LINE (PRESSURE 30PSI MAX.)

IRRIGATION CONTROLLER (TIMER) MAY BE INSTALLED ANYIHERE DESIRED.

RECOMMEND INSTALLING IN A CONVENIENT LOCATION LIKE GARAGE, LAJNORY ROOM,
gene, OR THER LOCATON EASLY ACCESSED PROM HOE ‘SEE THE CONTROLLER WIRING:
(eR DETAIL AT lrigation"v:or‘ols.con,

NTER SOURCE (MAY BE BELOM GROUND)

BRASS BALL VALVE (RECOMMENDED)
(GATE VALVE MAY BE BPD BUT THEY OFTEN LEAK

FILTER RATED FOR 2X MATER PRESSURE
A HGH GUALITY FLTER IS RECOMENDED

‘ANTI-SIPHOM SOLENOID VALVES
SEE ANTI-SFHON VALVE DETAL
T I iorio can
‘VALVES CAN BE

RIGID PIPE, SCH 40 PVG (0K),
SUH 80 PYG (NDISTRY STANDARD),

Z . =.
\ precr mRAC RENT Ne re nea MAIHLINE: SGH 40 PYG OR PEX (BEST)
‘SUGGEST CONDUIT FOR WIRE THAT IS NOT BURIED HSH PRESSURE POLY OX IF LOW WATER PRESSIRE

‘TH6 DRAANi DEPICTS A TYPICAL HOMECNIER DRIP IRRIGATION SYSTEM. SEE ‘DRIP GUIDELINES

DO NOTE GALY. STEEL OR STEEL PIPE AFTER FILTER AS 7 LL FLAKE OFF RST INTO THE ATER 4 PLile EMITTERS,
BE SURE CONTROLLER ALLOMS VALVE CIRCUT SETTINGS UP TO 60 MINES OF SUN TME PER VALVE.
CONTROLLERS AND ANTI-SIPHON VALVES ARE THE SAME TYPE Ad USED FOR SPRINCLER SYSTEMS.
ANTI-SIFHON VALVES MIST BE AT LEAST 6 NCHES HISHER TRAN ANY OF THE EMITTERS. IF THS 1S NOT POSSIBLE
USE A REDUCED PRESEIRE OR DOUBLE CHECK TYPE BACKFLOW PREVENTER ATH GLOBE VALVES, SEE THE
EACRILOM PREVENTER PAGE AT IrigetionTviorials com FOR ADDITIONAN INFORMATION

eo ois apr oan. Dubgnaa er wo hal sucons or cones. Chck nih local abrtios
etc dpe ordnance. By veo of bis crating you agreo In fll a tho "Terms ct Uso! tavnd ob

oriaiscom cs they nere repeated hh Wl
ORP SYSTEM WITH ANTHSPHON VALVES

‘The wel's mother Jed of free Irigetion information!

: °
tionTutorials.com Mh
SAMPLE PLAN ONLY ~ NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION

‘NOTES

TORO VALVES OR COMPARABLE TO SE LOCATED
IN GREEN PLASTIC CHRISTY BOXES:
SCH 40 PYC 12" DEEP
3/4 REDUCED TO 1/2"
‘THE LAST 10'-20' RUN
BACKFLOW DEVICE IS NEEDED-FEBCO 825

ATED IN AN INCONSPICUOUS PLANTING BED

JOVED PRIOR TO INSTALLATION
‘K WATER PRESSURE BEFORE CONFIRMING

PIPE SIZE
DRIP LINES FOR ALL PLANTING AREAS:
‘THIS IS A BASIC CONCEPTUAL DESIGN
ON FIELD CHANGES MIGHT BE NEEDED.
AUTOMATIC TIMER TO BE INSTALLED
A MINIMUM LAYER OF 3" OF MULCH TO ALL EXPOSED SOIL
ADD A HUNTER RAIN CLICK RAIN SENSOR
DEDICATED WATER METER MUST BE INSTALLED
PRESSURE REGULATING DEVICE NEEDED
MANUAL SHUT OFF NEEDED
CHECK VALVES ON ALL SPRINKLER HEADS AT LOW POINT

DESIGN CRITERIA

"FOLLOW ALL CALIFORNIA BUILOING CODES:

FOLLOW ALL CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODES

"FOLLOW ALL FINE CODES

ECTRICAL TO COMPLY WITH LOCAL ELECTRIC

“1 HAVE COMPLIED WITH THE CRITERIA OF THE

ORDINANCE AND APPLIED THEM FOR THE EFFICIENT

USE OF WATER IN THE LANDSCAPE DESIGN PLANS

"A DIAGRAM OF THE IRRIGATION PLAN SHOWING
‘THE HYOROZONES SHALL BE KEPT WITH THE IRRIGATION
CONTROLLER FOR SUBSEQUENT MANAGEMENT PURPOSES.

“A CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETIONSHALL BE FILLED OUT AND
CERTIFIED

BY EITHER THE DESIGNER OR CONTRACTOR AT FINAL INSPECTION
*AN IRRIGATION AUDIT REPORT SHALL BE COMPLETE AT THE TIME|
OF FINAL INSPECTION BY A SEPARATE CONTRACTOR

ALL DISTANCES AND DIMENSIONS ARE
IN FEET AND DECIMALS OF A FOOT.

UNDERGROUND UTILITY LOCATION
1S BASED ON SURFACE EVIDENCE.

RUILDING FOOTPRINTS ARK
‘SHOWN AT GROUND LEVEL.

FINISH FLOOR ELEVATIONS ARE TAKEN.
AT DOOR THRESHOLD (EXTERIOR)

IRRIGATION

Slophanic O Rourke
Reflections

1368 Howard Ava, #203

Buringars, Calif. 94010

(650) 347.2400

CZ TTB

CAL WATER #22
ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS
SAN MATEO,CA.

Feb, 26, 2021
PAPER SIZE +8

ENGINEERING

V\FO Ry
(a a”

N\A YD

cS
\)

ad,
“Ce

Cui
eR >

DEPARTMENT

STATION 22

MID PENINSULA
PROPOSED STATION REDEVELOPMENT
LANDSCAPING PLAN

TITLE:

MID PENINSULA

SAN MATEO

03/ 16/2021

PROMECT ID.

00098594
DRAWING NO.:

MPS-5623
suT_3 or 3

SHEET 22c OF 23



--- page 64 ---
ENGINEERING

LGHIING CONTRO. EQUIPMENT:

‘+ PROVIOE UGHTING CONTROL PANEL. ALL LIGHTS SHALL HAVE DIMMING CARD AND
LOW VOLTAGE UGHT SENSOR,

© "S17 FIXTURE SHALL HAVE MOTION SENSOR.

(© ALL PIKIUMES SHALL SE EQUIPFED WIM VANUAL~ESISIANI. COVEKS.

LGHOING CONTROL NOTES:

‘+ ALL OUTDOOR LIGHTING SHALL BE CONFIGURED FOR DUSK~TO DAWN OPERATION
UTIUZING LIGHT SENSOR INPUT TO THE UGHTING CONTROL PANEL OUTDOOR
LUGHTING SHALL INCLUDE (1) POLE MOUNTED TYPE “Si* FoXTURE AND (1)
[EXTERIOR WALL-MOUNTED TYPE “W1" FIXTURES.

‘ALL OUTDOOR UGHTING SHALL BE CONFIGURED FOR MULTI=LEVEL LUMEN
OUTPUT “STEPPED OPERATION" DURING NIGHT-TME USE AND SHALL CONFORM
TO 2019 BUILDING ENENGT EFFICIENCY STANOARUS, SECTION 130.2 FOR
AUTOMATIC SCHEDUUNG CONTROLS.

‘© SOURCE 120V POWER FOR UGHTING CIRCURTS FROM PANELBOARD C2

PLAT SHEET NO.

SM-29-25

NONE

DRAWN BY:

BE SS ee See ee eee J. 1SIDORO

DESIGNED BY:
osm urn pears [omar peox Tas weAXT

vot ws: wounT To J wirH HOUSESIDE S40

ro SQUARE STEEL

pour

T. ADAMS
REVIEW, DATE:
NOIES:
1, St FIXTURE MANUFACTURER SHALL FURNISH A 10" SQUARE STEEL POLE. POLE SHALL HAVE A CLEAR ANODIZED FINISH AND MEET WIND LOADS
[AND GUST FACTOR FOR RELATED PROJECT LOCATION. POLE SHALL BE MOUNTED TO A CONCRETE GASE PER DETAL, SUITABLE ANCHOR BOLTS,
BASE COVER, GROUND LUG AND VIBRATION PAD FURNISHED WITH POLE

STATION 22 OUTDOOR LIGHTING PHOTOMETRIC PLAN
SCALE: 1" = 10°

LT TS TT CTS eT VT
LS A TS TS TS TC ATT

aaa SO Oe

06-21-21

ALIS OIMLANOLOHd GNV
ALIS SNILHSIT
— VIOSNIN&d CIN

T NVId
ee NOILVLS

NV1d

DISTRICT:
MID PENINSULA

SAN MATEO
ATES

APRIL 2021

STATION 22 OUTDOOR LIGHTING PLAN 00098504
SCALE: 1" = 10°

MPS~5654

14 oF 16

ja OF 23



--- page 65 ---
STATE CAUFONGA

ACCA (rented 1/2) UFO BG COMER
[CERTIACATE OF COMPLIANCE NACCATO*!

SIATEOF AUFORNA

NPCCATOM IC U2)
[CERTIPCATE OF COMPLIANCE

[Tals document is used to demonstrate compliance with requirements in $110.9, $130.0 $130.2 $140.7, ond £141,012 for ortdoor lighting scopes using the prescriptive pOtn.
Report Page: Page La

olin nde ony uo Tig tes at within te peo permit option and re deonsig compan ig te Pee PO
sis is ota

[Must Comply with Allowances from $140.7.

Project Mame: Calforia Water Service Mid Peninsula» Staton 22
Address: 2657 Alameda de is Pulgas, San Mateo, CA 94403

tobe is outo filed with unedable comments becouse of selections made or dota entered in toblesthroughout the form.

Table H. Outdoor Lighting Controls Permit Applicant Notes:
‘Southwest Entry Walkway: Exception 1 (Section 130.2()3 Luminaire wattage of Fiture W1 <40 wats.

CS aR ERR

]
‘Table instructions: For new or altered lighting systems demonstrating compliance with §140 ? (ie Toble! has expanded for input), inctude all luminaires being installed and ony
luminaires remaining or being moved within the spaces covered by the permit application in tte Table below. For oltered lighting systems using the Cxisting Rower
x per §143.0{b|21 (le Toble W hos exponded for input}, Inclade only new luminaires being instolled and replacement luminaires being installed as port of the project scope

'NOTES: Selections with a* require a nate n the space below explaining how compliance achieved,
: Luminaire is lighting o stotve; EXCEPTION 2 to $130.2(b)-

TFOOTNOTES: Authority Having ursdiction may ask for Luminaire cut sheets to confirm wattage used or compliance per $130.0(¢)
"For ineor luminaires, wottage should be nicated os W/f instead of Watts/luminaire Total inear fet forthe luminaire shouldbe indicated in column US insteod of umber of
luminaires

* Select “New” for new luminaires in o new outdoor lighting projector for added luminoires in an oterction. Select “Altered” for replocement lvminoires in on alteration. Select
“Busting to Remain” for existing luminaaees within the praject scape that are not being altered and areremaining, Select “Existing Reinstalled” for existing luminaires which are
‘being removed ond reinstatied as part of the project scope

“*Complance with mandatory cutoff requirements is required for lurinaires with initio! men output 26,200 unless exempted by $130 2/0)

‘Guiting Energy Eien Standard 2019 Nomedetal Compliance ip noww ene. A ASaands

‘A ellng Energy Eciocy Standard 701 Wonreintal Compliance woe aan. ai A estan

STATE CUFORNA
Outdoor Lighting
NICCATOEKreedO/1)
[CERTIFICATE OF COMPUANCE

‘Name: California Water Service Mid Peninsula - Station 22
‘Address 2657 Alameda de as Pulgas, San Mateo, CA 94403

This Section Does Not Apply

Table instructions: Complete this table demonstrating compliance with controls requirements for ol new or atered luminaires installed as port ofthe permit application. For
ion projects luminaives which are existing to remain (c untouched) ond uminoires whch ore removed and reinstated (wiring ony) do not need tobe included inthis tobe
if they ore within the spoces covered by the permit application.
\When an option having 0 * is selected, the notes section ofthis table must be completed. The lighting controls section of the Compance Summary Tabe onthe fst page will
“DOES NOT COMPLY” f the notes are lft blank. For each requirement incelumns 02 through Of, do not leave the field blonk, insteod select NA or Exempt from the
ist to indicate not applicable or an exemption.

ES: Contes with a* require a note in the space below explaining how compliance achieved.
EX: Not permitted by heatth & safety to be turned off; EXCEPTION 1 to $130.2).
Southwest Entry Walkway Exception 1 (Seeton 130-2c)3 Luminaire wattage of Fature W1 <40 watts.

Tobe instructions: lease complete tis table for areas using the

|aiowance calculations per $140.2. General Hardscape Allowance it or Tove * Allowances (vlect all that pp)

[is per Table 140,7-A while “Use It or lost it" Allowances are per
{Teble 140,78 Indicate which

{a ing tower Ecncy Standards 2019 Women Compan tse aah ca RA OLS

[CERTIACATE OF COMPLIANCE

Name: __ calforia Water Service Mad Peninsula Station 22
rojeck AGGreSS: 2657 Aarne Ge las Pulgas, San Mateo, CA 94403

KCHATO.OL-E - Must be submited forall buildings.
}C-LTO-02. - Must be submited for a ighting contro system; o or an Energy Management Contrl System (EMC), to be

ble instructions; Selections have been made based on informaton provided in previous tables of ths Jocument. If any selection needs to be changed, please exploin why in

Pale Adena emer These éocwmenes mest be preview the big ape éutgconsoctin and res be completed vow on Acceptance Test Technion

‘CA Building Energy EHctency Standards - 2019 Nowresidential Comphance’ beta J/www energy ca govhite24/20 standards

STATE CAUFORA
Outdoor

NACCATOA (Crentd O421)
ATE OF COMPLIANCE

Name: calfornia Water Service Mid Peninsula Station 22
AGAress. 2657 AlarweGa Gets Pulgas, San Mate0, CA 94403

| certify that thes Certificate of Compliance documentation is accurate and compete.

(Documentation Author Name: ‘Thang Newyen, ET SS
Water Works Engneers
7500 N Dobson Rd, Sue 200 HERS Certification identification if applicable):

‘Scottsdale, AZ 85256 2 (480) 447 3572

[RESPONSIBLE PERSON'S DECLARATION STATEMENT

| ceri the following under penaity of perjury, under the laws ofthe State of California:

1. The information provided on this Certificate of Cemplance is true and core.

[2. 1am eligible under Division 3 of the Business and Professions Code to accept responsbity forthe building design or system design dentiied on this Certificate of
Compliance (responsible designer)

|. The energy features and specifications, materials, component, and manufactured devices forthe building deen or system design identified on this
Certificate of Compltance conform tothe requirements of Ttie 24, Part 1 and Part 6 ofthe California Code of Regulations.

|4. The builsing design features or system design features identified on this Certificate of Compliance are contistent withthe information provided on other applicable
‘compliance Gocuments, WOrEsneets, CaICUaVON, Plans and sBeCHICATIOnS SubTTeG to the enforcement AgENCY FOr ApBrOVE WIth this DUisIng PerTA aBpICATION.

|. wil ensure that a completed signed copy of this Certificate of Compliance shall be made available withthe buliding permits) Issued forthe building, and made avallable
to the enforcement agency for all applicable inspections. | understand that a completed signed copy ofthis Certificate of Compliance Is required tobe Included withthe
{documentation the builder provides to the building owner at occupancy.

Responsible Designer Name: rian Young, PE
‘water Works Engineers
‘CAPE No.: £20743

(480) 661-1742

{CA bing Energy Econ Sandrds 2019 Nonrwidetal Cor plancy hip Tanne anny canta

ENGINEERING

UIFOR,,
ri

RY
S&S
S 4

=

2% Uw
ER see

DEPARTMENT

04-21-21

VIOSNINGd GIN

@ NVId ALIS DNILHSIT

ee NOILVLS

APRIL 2021
PROUBCT 1D

00098594
DRAWING NO.:

MPS-5654
15 oF_16

SHEET 23b OF 23



--- page 66 ---
6/24/2021
6/24/2021
6/24/2021
Attachment 4 - Arborist Report

--- page 67 ---
Property Location: Alameda de las Pulgas and Portola Drive, APN: 039-33-2200 
Property Owner: California Water Service Company (Cal Water)
Contact: 650-558-7800
Activity
Daily1
Quarterly
Biannual
As Needed
Inspect pumping equipment for performance and system reliability
X
Walk site to determine potential security issues
X
Report irregularities such as graffiti and illegal dumping to the proper 
personnel for removal
X
Pickup litter on the property
X
Property inspection of the onsite equipment, building, and landscape
X
Landscaping and tree trimming maintenance related to vegetation 
upkeep and proper function of irrigation system2
X
X
Notes:
1. Daily visits to the station are performed by 1 California Water employee during typical business hours.
2. Performed by landscaping contractor.
3. California Water aims to address concerns as soon as possible.
Attachment 5
Maintenance Plan

--- page 68 ---
Attachment 6
FACTUAL DATA SHEET
NAME:
Alameda de las Pulgas and 
Portola Drive, Cal Water Pump 
Station, SUP, SPAR, and Variance
PA NUMBER:
PA-2020-052
ADDRESS:
Alameda de las Pulgas
and Portola Drive
LAND AREA:
5,424 sf (0.12 ac.)
ZONING:
R1-B
APN:
039-332-200
FLOOR AREA:
PROPOSED:
MAXIMUM ALLOWED:
  Existing Building (15’x32’)
480 sf (demolish)
-
  New Building (16’x30’)
480 sf
-
Total:
480 sf
2,712 sf
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR):
PROPOSED:
MAXIMUM ALLOWED:
  Existing Structure(s)
0.09 (demolish)
-
  New Structure(s)
0.09
-
Total:
0.09
0.50
BUILDING HEIGHT
Plate line
Roof peak
PROPOSED:
8.5 ft.
11.4 ft.
MAXIMUM ALLOWED:
9 ft.
15 ft.
BUILDING STORIES: 
1
N/A
SETBACKS1:
PROPOSED:
MINIMUM REQUIRED:
Front/South (Portola Drive)
85.6 ft.
15 ft.
Left/West (Alameda de las Pulgas)
7.5 ft.
15 ft. 
Right/East
17. ft.
15 ft.
Rear/North (Adjacent to San Mateo 
Senior Center)
24.8 ft.
15 ft.
PARKING:
PROPOSED:
MINIMUM REQUIRED:
  Standards:
1
2
  Compact:
0
N/A
  Disabled:
0
N/A
Total:
1
2
PARKING (Cont):
PROPOSED:
MINIMUM REQUIRED:
COVERED PARKING:
0
N/A
LOADING:
0
N/A
BICYCLE PARKING:
0
N/A
PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING:
N/A
N/A
FLOOD ZONE:
Zone X
N/A
FOOTNOTES:
(1) Newly constructed and/or expanded structures for non-residential uses are required both street and interior 
side yard setbacks equal to one-half the building height of fifteen (15) feet, whichever is greater, as required 
by Zoning Code Section § 27.18.080(d).

--- page 69 ---
Attachment 7 
Materials Board 
1 of 4 
 
Cal Water Station Prototype Example 
 
 
 
This photo is to provide a representation of the proposed pump building (Station 22). The building in the photo 
is the same size with the same finishing paint colors. Key differences to note include: 
 
Differences shown: 
- 
An extra door (single frame) 
- 
A louvers panel 
- 
A textured and larger CMU building material. Our proposed material has a smaller height and is more 
smooth compared to what is shown (will resemble a more brick look) 
 
Differences missing: 
- 
(5) faux windows 
- 
(3) skylights

--- page 70 ---
Attachment 7 
Materials Board 
2 of 4 
 
Proposed Building Materials and Colors

--- page 71 ---
Attachment 7 
Materials Board 
3 of 4 
 
Proposed Faux Window Elements

--- page 72 ---
Attachment 7
Materials Board

COLOR SELECTOR

Federal Standare 595 Federal Standard 595 Federal Standard 595
7886 White 30450 Desert Sand 10070 Brown
“CWS” Grouse Tan Federal Standard 595 Federal Standard 595
94227 Medium Green 14062 Dark Green
Federal Standard 595 Silverbrite
16440 Gray B59S11

These Federal Standard references approximate as closely cs possible

the actual paint colors, but do not reference gloss. “
SHERWIN
The Cover The Earth logo, and the Sherwin-Williams logo are trademarks ovened or licensed by The Sherwin-Williams Company. CMD 4/06 WiLLiAMs.

4 of 4



--- page 73 ---
calwater.com 
1 of 3 
February 18, 2021 
REFERENCE: 
Responses for Variance Request PA-2020-052, Alameda de las Pulgas / Portola Drive, 
Cal Water Pump Station, APN 039-332-200 
1)
How do the physical features, shape, topography, or legal restrictions of the property
deprive the owner of reasonable use and enjoyment as opposed to representing an
inconvenience or loss of revenue?
RESPONSE: Onsite piping improvements are planned to enhance the station’s distribution 
capabilities and improve reliability. The existing water piping is directly below the building 
floor without piping on both the street and interior sides of the building. Proposed piping 
modifications include installing pipe along both the street and interior sides of the building 
to better facilitate maintenance and repairs. Locating piping outside the building footprint, 
as opposed to underneath, will limit station downtime during times of maintenance, repair, 
and improvements to better serve customer water demand needs. Additionally, there is a 
sewer easement along the north and east property lines that is 8’-19’ and 9.8’ wide, 
respectively. The property is a corner lot with the street side to back property depth 
lessening north to south from 50’ to 27’. The shape in combination with the easement and 
piping modifications, prevent the proposed pump building from achieving the street 
minimum setback for non-residential use. A street side setback of 7.5’ is proposed, however 
a 15’ setback is required following Zoning Code 27.18.080 since 15’ is greater than one-half 
the building height (11.4’). Both the minimum side yards and interior proposed setbacks are 
able to be met. 
A reduced number off-street parking stalls is proposed due to existing infrastructure, onsite 
trees, and daily operations. A lengthened driveway to facilitate two vehicles parking in 
tandem is planned, instead of the minimum off-street parking of two (2) stalls for public 
utility facilities. An aboveground pole with guy anchors is located on the south side of the 
property providing both electrical power and telecommunication services. Additionally, 
there is a bus stop (SamTrans #182) at the southwest portion of the property. There are also 
trees located near the aboveground pole and along the property lines. These features limit 
the available parking area to the north portion of the property where the existing driveway 
is located and adjacent to the building. As indicated in the site maintenance plan, daily visits 
to the station are performed by one California Water employee during typical business hours. 
During these visits one vehicle parks at the station to perform daily operation tasks. The 
Attachment 8 - Applicant Statement

--- page 74 ---
Quality. Service. Value. 
calwater.com 
2 of 3 
driveway is planned to extend further back towards the northeast corner tree to allow up to 
two vehicles to park in tandem with a length of 33’. 
 
2) How is your property unique from others in the same Zoning District and neighborhood? 
 
RESPONSE: The property is unique in that it is a smaller lot size in comparison to other 
properties in the same Zoning District and neighborhood. The trapezoidal property shape, 
with a street depth varying between 27’and 50’, leads to less available space compared to 
the more prevalent rectangular properties in the neighborhood. Additionally, it has an 
aboveground pole with guy anchors located on it, which further limits the available area to 
achieve required parking stalls and street setback. 
 
3) How has the alleged hardship been created? 
 
RESPONSE: It has been created due to the existing site constraints as well as the project 
consisting of a non-residential use building on a property located within a residential Zoning 
District (R1B). As described above, existing aboveground infrastructure (aboveground pole 
with guy anchors and bus stop) prevent the southern portion of the property becoming 
utilized for parking stall space. In addition, the property function as a potable water booster 
station uses more underground space compared to residential homes in the same 
neighborhood as a result of more subsurface utilities present. This decreases the available 
aboveground space to locate the building for achieving the required street setback distance. 
 
4) How will granting the Variance affect the public health, safety and welfare of the community 
or improvement in the neighborhood? 
 
RESPONSE: Granting the variance will positively affect the public health, safety and welfare 
of the community. The goal of this project is to increase the reliability of the potable water 
transmission and water quality within the City of San Mateo water distribution system while 
enhancing firefighting capabilities for local residents. It will allow improved operation and 
visibility of our San Mateo water system. This is to be achieved through the design of pumps 
that are selected to better fit our system’s hydraulic/transmission needs, piping design that 
promotes operational flexibility, and updated equipment to provide a more reliable water 
system. Granting the variance will allow the water infrastructure to be implemented, which 
in turn will enhance the public health, safety and welfare of the community. 
 
5) How will the Variance affect the supply of light and air of adjacent properties, circulation, 
public safety or the property values in the neighborhood?

--- page 75 ---
Quality. Service. Value. 
calwater.com 
3 of 3 
 
RESPONSE: Negative effects towards the supply of light and air of adjacent properties, 
circulation, public safety or the property values in the neighborhood are not foreseen with 
this Variance Request. The proposed building is the same square footage as the existing 
building with similar design and height. The building will also aesthetically blend into the 
neighborhood with its updated structure and new landscaping. Given the proposed building 
setback change is approximately 9’ compared to the existing one and the building 
orientation is in the same, no significant impacts are expected to alter light and air of 
adjacent properties. Additionally, the driveway is planned to be in the existing location with 
a longer length to allow greater parking access. The request reduces the number of parking 
stalls from two to one, which are not anticipated to affect the supply of light and air of 
adjacent properties given it’s a paved surface. Public safety and property values in the 
neighborhood are also not expected to adversely change given the improvements proposed 
at the property.

--- page 76 ---
Attachment 9
Neighborhood Meeting Summary 
 
Topic: SM-22 Station Rebuild, Corner of Alameda De Las Pulgas & Portola Dr.
Date: Wednesday, July 15th 2020 
Time: 6:00 PM 
Location: Zoom 
Attendees: California Water Service (Cal Water) representatives 
No residential neighbors attended the neighborhood informational meeting on 
7/15/2020.  
Additional correspondence with neighbors occurred on two occasions: 
 7/9/2020  Ralph Marinaro who lives at 
. His property is 
adjacent to the station and he asked four questions via email prior to the 
meeting. Cal Water responded to estions on 7/13/2020, and the 
responses are included in the attached email. 
 7/17/2020  C Daniel Mosto who lives at 
. He inquired by 
phone about the proposed work. A description of the scope of work was provided 
over the phone. 
 8/7/2020  Jeanette Rossi who lives at 
, but receives the 
mail for tenants at 
. She had general questions that were 
addressed over the phone.

--- page 77 ---

































--- page 78 ---
Off: (408) 367-8533
Cel: (408)-512-4588

Cal Water EXT: 78602

Quality. Service. Value.

Calwater.com

From: Marinaro, Ralph ) as

Sent: Thursday, July 09, 2020 9:24 AM

To: Gonzalez, Salvador <Sagonzalez@calwater.com>
Ce: Ralph Marinaro

Subject: ZOOM Meeting July 15

This is an EXTERNAL EMAIL. Stop and think before clicking a link or opening attachments.

Thank you for putting this meeting together prior to construction. Please send me the link.

I am likely the most impacted neighbor since I am located Mo

We have been neighbors for over 30 years. All Good.

Prior to the meeting I wanted to share a few ideas or get your feedback.

1. Construction of the building can we use some sound proofing to limit the noise that the pumps
make when they turn on. The building is located by our Bedrooms.

2


--- page 79 ---

































--- page 80 ---
PLANNING COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING
CAL WATER PUMP STATION REPLACEMENT PROJECT
(PA-2020-052) 
OCTOBER 12, 2020

--- page 81 ---
BACKGROUND
• Applicant, California Water Service Company (Cal Water) proposes to demolish and 
replace an existing water pump station building with related site improvements
• Special Use Permit, Site Plan and Architectural Review, and Variance Planning 
Application

--- page 82 ---
PROJECT SITE
• Lot size: 5,424 square-feet
(0.12 acre)
• Zoning: R1-B (Single Family)
• Existing Use: Public Utility Facility
• Adjacent Uses:
• One to two-story residences
• SamTrans bus stop and shelter
• San Mateo Senior Center
Beresford Park
San Mateo
Senior Center

--- page 83 ---
PROJECT SITE
• Existing water pump station building and site condition

--- page 84 ---
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
• Demolish and replace an existing 480 square-foot water pump station building
• Replace building foundation, water pipes, water pump motor and related equipment
• Repave existing off-street parking stall and sidewalk along Alameda de las Pulgas

--- page 85 ---
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
•
Tree Removal and Protection
•
Remove two Magnolia 
Street Trees
•
Preserve seven Heritage 
Trees
•
Landscape Improvements
•
New plants and mulch
•
Drip irrigation
•
Public Improvements
•
Alameda de las Pulgas
sidewalks
•
Educational signage

--- page 86 ---
REQUIRED APPROVALS
Special Use Permit (SUP)
Site Plan and
Architectural Review (SPAR)
Variance
• To allow continuation of an 
existing public utility facility 
use on parcels zoned R1
• New water pump station
• Landscape improvements
• To allow continued use of an 
existing off-street parking 
facility of one stall, where two 
stalls are required for a public 
facility use
• To reduce the required street 
side yard from 15-feet to 7-
feet, 6-inches

--- page 87 ---
LOCAL CODES AND POLICIES
• Zoning Code: R1-B
• General Plan: Single Family
• Subject to development
standards for:
• Non-Residential Structure
• Public Facility Use
Proposed
Maximum
Floor Area
480 SF
2,712 SF
Height
Plate Line
Roof Peak
8’-6”
11’-5”
9’
16’
Setbacks
Proposed
Minimum
Front (Portola Drive)
Street Side (Alameda de las Pulgas)
Side (East)
Rear (North)
85’-7”
7’-6”
17’-5”
24’-10”
15’
15’
15’
15’
Parking
1
2

--- page 88 ---
BUILDING MATERIALS AND DESIGN
East Elevation
South Elevation
• Concrete Masonry Unit (CMU) wall material for noise control
• Gable roof form with plywood and fiberglass shingles
• Slumpstone brick finish and faux window elements for 
neighborhood compatibility
CMU Finish 
(Slumpstone)

--- page 89 ---
SITE PLAN
• Variance to allow reduced street side yard setback and continue use of an 
established off-street parking facility of one stall
• Proposed water pipe improvements and Heritage Tree preservation
• Irregular parcel

--- page 90 ---
PUBLIC INPUT
• Neighborhood Informational Meeting (May 27, 2020) with no participants
• One public comment letter to consider noise and site maintenance
• Additional correspondence with neighbors by phone and email:
• General project scope inquiries
• Water pressure

--- page 91 ---
RECOMMENDATION 
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Special Use Permit, Site Plan and 
Architectural Review, and Variance for replacement of an existing Cal Water 
Pump Station based on the Findings for Approval and subject to the Conditions 
of Approval.

--- page 92 ---
PLANNING COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING
CAL WATER PUMP STATION REPLACEMENT PROJECT
(PA-2020-052) 
OCTOBER 12, 2020

--- page 93 ---


--- page 94 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 21-5316
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
October 12, 2021 
SUBJECT:  
Housing Element Update Process 
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a status report on the Housing Element Update process.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo has started the process to update its Housing Element for the eight-year period from 2023-2031 
(the sixth cycle) as directed by the State of California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD). The 
Housing Element is a “chapter” of the City’s General Plan, which is also in the process of being updated. The Housing 
Element, unlike the other elements in the General Plan, is highly regulated by State law and must be approved by HCD 
before final adoption by the City. Therefore, although the two updated processes complement each other, they are on 
slightly different timelines due to the State requirements. The City’s General Plan Update is anticipated to be ready for 
adoption by the end of 2023, but in order to meet State deadline requirements, the Housing Element will need to be 
adopted by the end of 2022.
The Housing Element is the City’s plan for addressing current and future housing needs in the community for all income 
levels, and it includes strategies for how to provide for those housing needs. The updated Housing Element will include the 
following components:
•
Analysis of community characteristics and housing needs 
•
Evaluation of constraints to housing production
•
Identification of sites to meet needs 
•
Housing Plan with goals, policies, programs and quantified objectives
•
Special focus on fair housing and environmental justice 
•
Public engagement throughout the entire process
Regional Housing Needs Allocation (RHNA)
Local jurisdictions do not necessarily build housing, but they do create the rules and regulations for how and where it gets 
built.  Each jurisdiction must ensure that there is enough land with appropriate zoning to accommodate its RHNA in its 
Housing Element. Per State law, the State of California, in conjunction with Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG), 
has projected future population figures for the nine Bay Areas counties, which translates into the number of additional 
housing units that need to be accommodated during the next housing cycle.  Each jurisdiction is then assigned a portion of 
the regional housing need in an equitable manner. The housing allocation for each jurisdiction was established using many 
factors, including the new requirements related to affirmatively furthering fair housing (AFFH), access to High Opportunity 
Areas, and proximity to jobs (both via automobile and transit). Additional information about the methodology can be 
found ABAG’s Draft Regional Housing Needs Allocation Plan that was published in May 2021. 
On May 25, 2021, ABAG released its official draft RHNA Allocations for the nine-county Bay Area region, with the City of

--- page 95 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
San Mateo receiving an allocation of 7,015 units. The City of San Mateo must now establish a plan that ensures there are 
enough sites with sufficient zoning density and site development standards to accommodate this housing allocation. ABAG 
is currently in the process of considering jurisdictional appeals of the draft allocations (San Mateo did not file an appeal), 
and the final RHNA for the Bay Area is scheduled to be adopted by the ABAG Executive Board in December 2021. 
For reference, a breakdown of San Mateo’s draft housing allocation of 7,015 units is shown in Table 1, and a breakdown of 
the San Mateo County Area Median Income limits that correlate to the different income categories is shown in Table 2.
Table 1 – City of San Mateo RHNA
Income Category
Very Low
Up to 50% of Area 
Median Income
Low
Up to 80% of Area 
Median Income
Moderate
Up to 120% of Area 
Median Income
Above Moderate
Market Rate
Housing Allocation
1,777
1,023
1,175
3,040
Table 2 – San Mateo County Income Limits for 2021
Income Limits by Family Size
Income Category
1
2
3
4
Very Low
$63,950
$73,100
$82,250
$91,350
Low
$102,450
$117,100
$131,750
$146,350
Median
$104,700
$119,700
$134,650
$149,600
Moderate
$125,650
$143,600
$161,550
$179,500
Source: State of California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD)
Based on the draft housing allocation, staff conducted a city-wide sites inventory and review of existing land use densities 
and zoning regulations. A preliminary analysis indicates that the City has the ability to meet its RHNA allocation within the 
existing land use and zoning designations without the need to rezone or increase densities.
Housing Element Update Timeline and Process
The City of San Mateo, in collaboration with the County and other cities and towns in San Mateo, is working - through “21 
Elements” to share information and best practices, and to ensure we follow the State mandates. 21 Elements is a multi-
year, multi-phase collaboration of all 21 San Mateo County jurisdictions, along with partner agencies and stakeholder 
organizations that supports jurisdictions in developing, adopting, and implementing local housing policies and programs, 
and serves as a forum for sharing resources, successful strategies and best practices. From March to May of 2020, San 
Mateo partnered with 21 Elements to hold four workshops that introduced the Housing Element and the RHNA process to 
the community.  On September 29, 2021, the Community Relations Commission (CRC) held a public meeting to collect 
information about housing needs in San Mateo. 21 Elements is also holding a series of meetings to collect housing needs 
information from service providers and community members for us to use in drafting the Housing Element. It will also 
coordinate the collection of community comments on fair housing issues.  Over the next few months staff will table at 
community events and will make presentations to small groups, as well as conduct on online survey to collect community 
ideas and encourage participation in the plan adoption process. Two major workshops are planned on Housing Programs 
and Policies (November 2, 2021) and a City Council study session in early January 2022 
In early 2022, the draft plan will be released to the public and reviewed by the Planning Commission and City Council prior 
to submitting to HCD.  It is typical that HCD will provide comments for revisions and return to the City for amending at 
least one round before the document is finalized and ready for adoption by the City Council. The final plan will need to be 
approved by HCD by January 2023.
Due to the specific approval dates set by the State, the City of San Mateo’s Housing Element will need to be adopted prior 
to the completion of the General Plan update.  The General Plan update will guide and plan for growth and change over

--- page 96 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the next 20-year period, through 2040, while this Housing Element will cover an eight-year period (2023-2031). Therefore, 
the General Plan will need to consider and plan for the housing needs for at least two or more Housing Element cycles as it 
is developed and ultimately adopted. 
More information about community outreach and upcoming events and meetings related to the Housing Element Update 
can be found on the City’s website: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/HousingElement2023
BUDGET IMPACT:
No budget impacts. This is an informational item.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5)).
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
STAFF CONTACT
Sandra Council, Housing Manager
scouncil@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7223

--- page 97 ---
From: AlanTalansky 
  
Sent: Tuesday, October 12, 2021 11:43 AM 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Letter to the Planning Commission 
 
Today housing demands new approaches to finance, ownership, 
management, design, construction and scope of entitlement .   
  
The challenge of creating affordable and livable public workforce 
housing that provides a sustainable return on investment, for the 
developer and and a successful result for the  people of San Mateo is a 
difficult balance. 
  
One of the most most significant barriers to creating a favorable balance 
is a restrictive density per acre limitation. Today the most desirable 
development sites are restricted to 50 units per acre (before any density 
bonus benefits). Since the limitation to 50 units per acre represents 
1/3rd of  what would create a project with a reasonable density for a 1 
acre site. This current limitation  reduces the addition of units necessary 
for a project to make a sustainable return on investment and creates less 
necessary housing for the community. 
Let’s raise the unit per acre restriction to a more realistic less restrictive 
number. 
  
 Thank You 
 
Alan Talansky 
Executive Vice President of Development 
EBL&S Development LLC 
334 Sonora Dr

--- page 98 ---
(5 PROMETHEUS
10.11.2021
San Mateo Planning Commission
City of San Mateo 330 W. 20fh Ave.,
San Mateo, CA 94403
Re: Housing Element Update Process
Dear Chair Maldonado and City of San Mateo Planning Commissioners,
On behalf of Prometheus Real Estate Group, I am writing today regarding the Housing Element Update Process. As a
company long based in San Mateo and an employer and investor throughout San Mateo and it"s Downtown,
Prometheus Real Estate Group supports the City's efforts to address "its RHNA allocation within the existing land use
and zoning designations without the need to rezone or increase densities as stated in the Staff Report. While
Prometheus and our project partners continue to follow and support the General Plan Update process, which will
provide a plan for growth throughout the City for the years ahead, we believe that the City's current zoning and Iand
use guidelines do provide a framework for addressing the City's 7,015-unit RHNA allocation. However, we would
propose greater focus on ways to better streamline and achieve greater certainty throughout the development
process.
Towards that end, below are several suggestions that we believe would better facilitate the development process
and help towards attaining the RHNA housing numbers needed.
1. State Density Bonus and Measure Y
a. There have been recent discussions within the City regarding the Density Bonus Law and its ability
to allow a project to go beyond a Iocal voter initiative-based height limit. We would recommend
clarifying the details of how this would work so that a project applicant could plan accordingly.
Having certainty in such an interpretation can allow for a more creative approach to defining a
specific project and potentially incorporating some or more housing if possible. Along with
additional height, this would also include greater FAR and densities.
Having these guidelines and interpretations formally confirmed at the start of a project will greatly
facilitate the initial underwriting and City review process which will benefit all parties involved.
b.
2. Community Benefits
a.
Some zoning districts in the City of San Mateo have underlying residential uses allowed. Within
those allowed residential use guidelines can be Ianguage regarding gaining additional densities
through Community Benefits. By more clearly defining the Community Benefit process, higher
residential densities can potentially be achieved and RHNA targets realized.
b. While the recent "interim program" from 2020 provided a proposed framework for an economic
Iand-use consultant to value the community benefits on a project-by-project basis, we believe
further refinement of this process is warranted, in an effort to provide morer certainty in
community benefit requirements, resulting in higher densities and greater ability to attain the
necessary RHNA numbers.
Tha
for your time on this matter,
'JE".':
JonaThan Stone
Senior Director of Development
Prometheus Real Estate Group, Inc.
1900 South Norfolk Street, Suite 150, San Mateo, CA 94403
650.931.3448
jstone@prometheusreg.com

--- page 99 ---
Housing Element 
2023-2031
Planning Commission  10/12/21

--- page 100 ---
What is a Housing Element?
A plan for the housing needed in a community
•
Cities and towns don’t build housing but create the rules  for where it should 
go and how much
•
Includes housing policies and programs
•
Required by state law and guided by target numbers
•
Updated every 8 years

--- page 101 ---
What is a Housing Element?
•
Analysis of Housing Needs
•
Evaluation of Constraints
•
Identification of Sites to meet needs
•
Housing Plan with Goals, Policies, Programs, Quantified 
Objectives
•
Special focus on Fair Housing, Environmental Justice and 
Hearing from the Community

--- page 102 ---
Housing Programs and Policies
• Existing Programs and Policies
• New ideas
• Expansion of existing programs
• Zoning revisions
• Programs to support affordability
• Programs to support equal access to housing

--- page 103 ---
Regional Housing Need Allocation (RHNA)  
Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG)  Methodology 
Committee 
Target number for how much land zoned for housing
• Population Forecasts
• Access to High Opportunity Areas
• Job Proximity auto
• Job Proximity transit

--- page 104 ---
San Mateo RHNA /Incomes
Income Category
Very Low
50% AMI
Low
80% AMI
Moderate
120% AMI
Above
Market Rate
Total
RHNA 2023-31
1,777
1,023
1,175
3,040
7,015
Household Size
Very Low
Low 
Median
Moderate
2 persons
$73,000
$117,100
$119,700
$143,600
4 persons
$91,350
$146,350
$149,600
$179,500

--- page 105 ---
Affirmatively Further Fair Housing
“Prohibits discrimination concerning the sale, rental, and financing of 
housing based on race, religion, national origin, sex, (and as amended) 
handicap and family status.”
“taking meaningful actions, in addition to combating discrimination, that 
overcome patterns of segregation and foster inclusive communities free 
from barriers that restrict access to opportunity based on protected 
characteristics”.

--- page 106 ---
Assessment of Fair Housing
Sites Inventory
Goals, Policies & Actions
Outreach
ID and Prioritize Contributing Factors
New Housing 
Element 
Requirements

--- page 107 ---
| July to December |

2022: January to June

General Plan/Housing Element Timeline

July to December |

2021: January toJune |
(CumiyoDp oe OF FCSSHEHSSSCSRFCCCCHCCECOHEHHEHH8T88888EEEEEE SO
b bt
RA
oe
CGGuaiiGGD ec eee eee 822202000008000 08

Each General Plan Meeting Series will include some combination of community workshops and events, General Plan Subcommittee meetings

Planning Commission study sessions, and City Council direction

at) Housing Element Outreach includes stakeholder meetings, community meetings, Planning Commission hearings, and City Council hearings

s
°

Se
‘Lipo



--- page 108 ---
21 Elements

i>
—> Let’s Talk Housing
SAN MATEO COUNTY

Lin

https://www.letstalkhousing.org/



--- page 109 ---
Housing Element Workshops
Introduction Webinars ( 21 Elements): March to May 2021
Listening Series (21 Elements): Fair Housing, Service Providers, Developers 
Housing Needs Workshop (Community Relations Commission) 9/29/21
Housing Policy Community Workshop 11/2/21
Fair Housing Workshop : January 2022 TBD

--- page 110 ---
Community 
Engagement
Online Survey
Small Group Presentations/Focus Groups
Pop-up Events
Special outreach to Spanish speakers, renters,  
persons with special needs

--- page 111 ---
Adoption Process
• Joint Study Session City Council and Planning Commission
• January 2022
• Draft Housing Element
• Publish for 30 day Public Comment End of March 2022
• Planning Commission Review April 2022
• City Council Adoption May 2022
• Submit to State Housing and Community Development
• May 2022

--- page 112 ---
21 Elements 
Discussion Series
10/13 Why Affordability Matters
10/27  Housing and Racial Equity
11/10 Housing in a Climate of Change
12/01 Putting it all Together for a  Better 
Future
To register and learn more visit: 
www.letstalkhousing.org/events

--- page 113 ---
Stay Informed
Visit webpage at   www.cityofsanmateo.org/HousingElement2023
Join the mailing list
Take online survey
Materials from previous meetings
Background materials
Contact Housing Division
housing@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7220

--- page 114 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: REPORTS AND ANNOUN
File ID: 21-5357
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
October 12, 2021 
SUBJECT:
2022 Planning Commission Calendar
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt the 2022 Planning Commission Meeting Schedule
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - 2022 Planning Commission Schedule
STAFF CONTACT
Mary Way, Administrative Assistant
mway@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7213

--- page 115 ---
2022 Planning Commission
Planning Commission Meetings: 2nd and 4th Tuesdays of the Month
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETINGS:
Tuesday, January 11, 2022
Tuesday, January 25, 2022
Tuesday, February 8, 2022
Tuesday, February 22, 2021 (Cancel - conflicts w/CC special meeting - can 
be rescheduled to 2/24 if needed)
Tuesday, March 8, 2022 
Tuesday, March 22, 2022
Tuesday, April 12, 2022 
Tuesday, April 26, 2022
Tuesday, May 10, 2022 
Tuesday, May 24, 2022 
Tuesday, June 14, 2022
Tuesday, June 28, 2022
Tuesday, July 12, 2022 
Tuesday, July 26, 2022
Tuesday, August 9, 2022
Tuesday, August 23, 2022
Tuesday, September 13, 2022
Tuesday, September 27, 2022 
Tuesday, October 11, 2022 
Tuesday, October 25, 2022
Tuesday, November 8, 2022
Tuesday, November 22, 2022 (Cancel - Thanksgiving Week)
Tuesday, December 13, 2022
Tuesday, December 27, 2022 (Cancel - Christmas week) 
 
Q:\CDD\Planning\Planning Secretary\Planning Commission Schedules\2020 Planning Commission and CC Schedule.docx