--- page 1 ---
Flagstaff cancels controversial contract for
Flock Safety cameras
The city of Flagstaff voted unanimously to end its contract with Flock Safety after months of privacy concerns.
Mason Carroll reports.
By Mason Carroll
Published: Dec. 20, 2025 at 12:17 AM UTC

Arizona News
Arizona News
Watch Live
Watch Live
Weather
Weather
Extreme Heat
Extreme Heat
Podcasts
Podcasts

ADVERTISEMENT
Share
Add Us
On Google



--- page 2 ---
FLAGSTAFF, AZ (AZFamily) — The city of Flagstaff just canceled its contract with the
surveillance camera company Flock Safety this week after a unanimous city council vote.
Locals have been raising concerns over privacy issues for months, but the company said it’s
useful in finding missing people and criminals.
The cameras are pretty inconspicuous when you’re just driving by, but over 30 Flock cameras can
be found around Flagstaff.
Brendan Trachsel lives in Flagstaff. He said that after he learned Flock cameras were in town, he
became concerned about his privacy.
“I look up on a lightpost, and I see a Flock camera installed, and my heart just sinks,” Trachsel
said. “It’s the fact that they are keeping and maintaining a record of movements of all drivers,
which, 99.8% of which will never be suspected of anything.”
So he created “Flock Out of Flag.” The purpose is to try and convince the city to end its contract
with the company.
Flock is making state and national headlines. Their automated license plate reader technology is
installed in several cities across the state, and it’s been credited for solving crimes.
Earlier this year, their cameras in northern Arizona helped law enforcement track down a missing
toddler from California.
Just this week, the technology was credited with helping find the Brown University shooting
suspect.
At a recent City Council meeting in Flagstaff, police officers hailed the technology as an important
tool.
“It aided in bringing justice to many victims in our community, and we had no incidents of misuse
of the (Automated License Plate Recognition) system with our first year of the contract,” said a
police officer.


--- page 3 ---
Copyright 2025 KTVK/KPHO. All rights reserved.
But Trachsel worries about who else has access to all that data. He said there has to be a middle
ground and not a constant “Big Brother” gathering data on anyone and everyone.
“Flock goes way too far in one direction, and that personally, I believe a hot-list-only ALPR system
would be a much better balance for the people of Arizona,” he said.
This week, dozens of people showed up at a City Council meeting, echoing those concerns.
“Approving this contract with Flock in trusts our private data to a company that will sacrifice
honesty and integrity for profit,” said a woman who spoke at the meeting.
After months of back and forth, the council unanimously decided to end the contract.
Coconino County also has Flock cameras, with 18 of them currently installed. Trachsel said they
will request that the county remove those cameras as well.
The city of Sedona also canceled its contract with Flock this fall. However, these cameras are still
active across the state, including in Phoenix and Tucson. You can see if there is a Flock camera
near you by clicking/tapping here.
See a spelling or grammatical error in our story? Please click here to report it.
Do you have a photo or video of a breaking news story? Send it to us here with a brief
description.
ADVERTISEMENT


--- page 4 ---
Most Read
 PD: Mother kills 2 children, herself after shooting at
husband outside Glendale bar
 Arizona could feel impacts if Southern California
chemical tank explodes, expert warns
 1 dead, 8 hospitalized after red-light runner crashes into
van in Mesa
 DPS arrests driver with license plate-hiding device
during third high-speed chase
 Suspect arrested after woman allegedly held underwater
at Salt River
 Kyle Busch’s family reveals his cause of death


--- page 5 ---
Latest News
 Man arrested after person shot inside Mesa Target
 Man dead after hit-and-run in Mesa shopping center
parking lot
 Fourth Buckeye shooting victim remains in coma as
suspects indicted
Major SR 260 widening project to reshape drive into Rim
Country

 Arizona to test fish in more than 25 lakes for PFAS,
issue advisories this summer


--- page 6 ---
Nice weekend across Arizona before warm up

Arizona to test fish in more than 25 lakes for PFAS, issue
advisories this summer

On Your Side: The Home Edition Premiere: Arcadia Home
Tour, $500K Roosevelt Row Condo, Buyer Tips

 Phoenix veteran searching for stolen dog who needs
heart medication
Woman fighting for life after being shot in Buckeye
shooting



--- page 7 ---

Arizona News
Advertise With Us
About Us
Contact Us
Weather
Programming
Schedule
Meet the Team
Careers
Arizona's Family
5555 N. 7th Ave
Phoenix, AZ 85013
(602) 207-3333
KPHO Public Inspection File
KPHO EEO Report
KTVK Public Inspection File
KTVK EEO Report
FCC Applications
programming@azfamily.com | 602-207-3333
Closed Captioning/Audio Description
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Advertising
DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION
CALIFORNIA PRIVACY NOTICE
Digital Marketing
Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence.
A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026