Flagstaff cancels controversial contract for Flock Safety cameras Skip to content Your Life Arizona 110 Contest Pool Safety 101 Silver Apple Surprise Squad Field Trip Friday Newcomers Guide Arizona News Watch Live Weather Extreme Heat Podcasts Latest Videos News Tips Seen On TV Share Videos Sign In Sign In Home Watch Live Mobile & Smart TV Apps Seen on TV Share Your Videos & Photos Arizona News Nancy Guthrie Investigation Phoenix News East Valley News West Valley News Northern Arizona News Yuma News True Crime Arizona Arizona Wildfires Health News Technology Education US & World Arizona Housing and Real Estate Adoptable Pets Pets & Animals Weather Weather Cams Weather Maps Weather News Weather App Alerts Rainfall Totals Science and Climate Air Quality Monsoon Drought Extreme Heat Radar Politics Politics Unplugged National Politics Immigration Podcasts Generation AI Sonoran Sky Beyond the Next Chapter Here Before, Hear Now Arizona's Family Investigates Jaime's Local Love On Your Side Politics Unplugged True Crime Arizona Podcast The Extra Point Speak of the Devils On Your Side Contact Us FAQs On Your Side Podcast Investigations Contact Arizona's Family Investigates Dirty Dining Traffic Sports NCAA Tournament WM Phoenix Open Arizona Diamondbacks Arizona Cardinals Phoenix Suns Phoenix Mercury Phoenix Rising Arizona State Sports Network High School Sports Grand Canyon Good Morning Arizona Happy Hour Spots Jaime's Local Love Something Good Field Trip Friday Bands Recipes Your Life Arizona Entertainment Original with Yetta Arizona Highways TV Movie Reviews Travel Community Route 66 St. Jude Children's Research Hospital Pool Safety 101 Surprise Squad Silver Apple Something Good In the Community with Susan Casper Finding Forever Community Calendar Memorials Request an Emcee About Us Submit Photos and Videos Newsletter Meet the Team Contact Us Careers Request an Emcee FCC Public Inspection File Programming Schedule Arizona’s Family Sports Contests Games NextGen TV Circle Country Local News Live PowerNation InvestigateTV Watching Your Wallet Digital Marketing Gray AI Policy Flagstaff cancels controversial contract for Flock Safety cameras The city of Flagstaff voted unanimously to end its contract with Flock Safety after months of privacy concerns. Mason Carroll reports. By Mason Carroll Published: Dec. 20, 2025 at 12:17 AM UTC Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google FLAGSTAFF, AZ (AZFamily) — The city of Flagstaff just canceled its contract with the surveillance camera company Flock Safety this week after a unanimous city council vote. Locals have been raising concerns over privacy issues for months, but the company said it’s useful in finding missing people and criminals. The cameras are pretty inconspicuous when you’re just driving by, but over 30 Flock cameras can be found around Flagstaff. Brendan Trachsel lives in Flagstaff. He said that after he learned Flock cameras were in town, he became concerned about his privacy. “I look up on a lightpost, and I see a Flock camera installed, and my heart just sinks,” Trachsel said. “It’s the fact that they are keeping and maintaining a record of movements of all drivers, which, 99.8% of which will never be suspected of anything.” So he created “ Flock Out of Flag .” The purpose is to try and convince the city to end its contract with the company. Flock is making state and national headlines. Their automated license plate reader technology is installed in several cities across the state, and it’s been credited for solving crimes. Earlier this year, their cameras in northern Arizona helped law enforcement track down a missing toddler from California . Just this week, the technology was credited with helping find the Brown University shooting suspect . At a recent City Council meeting in Flagstaff, police officers hailed the technology as an important tool. “It aided in bringing justice to many victims in our community, and we had no incidents of misuse of the (Automated License Plate Recognition) system with our first year of the contract,” said a police officer. But Trachsel worries about who else has access to all that data. He said there has to be a middle ground and not a constant “Big Brother” gathering data on anyone and everyone. “Flock goes way too far in one direction, and that personally, I believe a hot-list-only ALPR system would be a much better balance for the people of Arizona,” he said. This week, dozens of people showed up at a City Council meeting, echoing those concerns. “Approving this contract with Flock in trusts our private data to a company that will sacrifice honesty and integrity for profit,” said a woman who spoke at the meeting. After months of back and forth, the council unanimously decided to end the contract. Coconino County also has Flock cameras, with 18 of them currently installed. Trachsel said they will request that the county remove those cameras as well. The city of Sedona also canceled its contract with Flock this fall. However, these cameras are still active across the state, including in Phoenix and Tucson. You can see if there is a Flock camera near you by clicking/tapping here . See a spelling or grammatical error in our story? Please click here to report it . Do you have a photo or video of a breaking news story? Send it to us here with a brief description. Copyright 2025 KTVK/KPHO. All rights reserved. Most Read PD: Mother kills 2 children, herself after shooting at husband outside Glendale bar Arizona could feel impacts if Southern California chemical tank explodes, expert warns 1 dead, 8 hospitalized after red-light runner crashes into van in Mesa DPS arrests driver with license plate-hiding device during third high-speed chase Suspect arrested after woman allegedly held underwater at Salt River Kyle Busch’s family reveals his cause of death Man arrested after person shot inside Mesa Target Man dead after hit-and-run in Mesa shopping center parking lot Latest News Fourth Buckeye shooting victim remains in coma as suspects indicted Major SR 260 widening project to reshape drive into Rim Country Arizona to test fish in more than 25 lakes for PFAS, issue advisories this summer Nice weekend across Arizona before warm up Arizona to test fish in more than 25 lakes for PFAS, issue advisories this summer On Your Side: The Home Edition Premiere: Arcadia Home Tour, $500K Roosevelt Row Condo, Buyer Tips Phoenix veteran searching for stolen dog who needs heart medication Woman fighting for life after being shot in Buckeye shooting Arizona News Advertise With Us About Us Contact Us Weather Programming Schedule Meet the Team Careers Arizona's Family 5555 N. 7th Ave Phoenix, AZ 85013 (602) 207-3333 KPHO Public Inspection File KPHO EEO Report KTVK Public Inspection File KTVK EEO Report FCC Applications programming@azfamily.com | 602-207-3333 Closed Captioning/Audio Description Terms of Service Privacy Policy Advertising DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION CALIFORNIA PRIVACY NOTICE Digital Marketing Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence. A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026 search by queryly Advanced Search