--- page 1 ---
89
89°
Phoenix
Phoenix, , AZ
AZ
4 Weather Alerts In Effect

Peoria police say missing 82-year-old found
safe thanks to Flock cameras
The man’s wife gave police the car he was driving and its license plate
number, which was entered into the Flock system.
Police say an 82-year-old man reported missing was found safe hours later thanks to Flock cameras. Zach
Prelutsky reports why some don't support the tech.
By Zach Prelutsky
Published: Sep. 16, 2026 at 4:26 AM UTC | Updated: 7 hours ago

Arizona News
Arizona News
Watch Live
Watch Live
Weather
Weather
Extreme Heat
Extreme Heat
Podcasts
Podcasts

ADVERTISEMENT



--- page 2 ---
Share
Add Us
On Google
PEORIA, AZ (AZFamily) — Peoria police say an 82-year-old man who had been reported
missing on Monday was found safe hours later thanks to Automated License Plate Reader
(ALPR) cameras.
On Monday, a woman called Peoria police to report that her husband never made it to a
scheduled doctor’s appointment and was concerned because that was unusual for him. He also
suffers from multiple medical conditions, as well as reported cognitive decline.
“Traditionally, we probably would not have found him unless he returned home because we would
have not known where in the Valley he was at,” said Commander Jason Tarrant with Peoria
Police during a press conference on Tuesday.
The man’s wife gave police the car he was driving and its license plate number, which was
entered into the Flock system.
Peoria police say the system gave officers information about the vehicle’s location and direction.
He had been tracked driving as far away as Scottsdale. Eventually the man was found by officers
on Bell Road just outside of Peoria, nearly out of fuel and unaware of where he had been.
“This is probably the single most impactful tool that I have seen in the law enforcement realm
because it’s able to scan every vehicle,” said Peoria Police Chief Thomas Intrieri.
A recent Flock network audit obtained by Arizona’s Family through a public records request found
that between July 14 and Aug. 14, Peoria police made 1,290 searches of the Flock system with
152 of those being for missing, endangered or runaway people.
Not everybody in the city is in favor of this technology, even in lieu of this week’s success story.
During public comment in Tuesday’s Peoria City Council meeting, multiple people spoke up with
concerns about this technology and its presence in the city.


--- page 3 ---
Copyright 2026 KTVK/KPHO. All rights reserved.
“We generally support the competitive edge against local crime and saving lives, absolutely, but
deploying a city-scaled surveillance system interconnected with neighboring jurisdictions through
the same vendor without tactical comms, a road map. It’s just an egregious breach of our trust
honestly,” one woman said.
Peoria police began using Flock cameras in early 2025 and now have 79 ALPR cameras around
the city, recently adding four more.
Chief Intrieri said there have not been any conversations of canceling the Flock contract.
“We recognize this is merely a technology that requires human intervention,” he said.
See a spelling or grammatical error in our story? Please click here to report it.
Do you have a photo or video of a breaking news story? Send it to us here with a brief
description.
HomeBuddy | Sponsored
If you Live In These Zip Codes You're Eligible For New Windows
Enter Your Zip Code to Check If You Qualify for a Quote
Learn More
Savvy Savers | Sponsored
Virginia: Notice For Cars Driven Less Than 50 Miles A Day
Read this before paying your next car insurance bill
Learn More
Sakura Knives | Sponsored
Hiroshi Closes His Knife Shop After 55 Years
Learn More
Is This Early Biotech Platform Being Overlooked [See why]


--- page 4 ---
Memory Health Journal | Sponsored
Mind News | Sponsored
VolitionRx | Sponsored
See why some early-stage biotech investors are tracking this platform before any major inflection, fully aware of 
the risks. Find out
Learn More
MDs Say Mental Decline Begins When Seniors Can't Pronounce These 3 Phrases. Can
You?
Memory Decline Often Begins When Seniors Repeat These 3 Phrases (See Which)
Most Read
ADVERTISEMENT
 2 hikers who died in Grand Canyon floods ID’d. 1
remains missing
 Arrest warrant issued for 2024 presidential candidate Jill


--- page 5 ---
Stein
 Arizona man taped to seat after alleged unruly behavior
on American Airlines flight
 Arizona corrections ID found on Sinaloa Cartel arms
trafficking suspect near Mexican border
 Arizona high school football season canceled amid
criminal investigation
 Harkins Theatres is no longer screening movies
released by A24; here’s why
 ‘Never experienced that’: Witness describes chaotic,
deadly shooting scene in Scottsdale
 Wall of dust, heavy rain and power outages hit Phoenix
area overnight


--- page 6 ---
Latest News
 Flood control district takes action as Phoenix-area
storm chances increase
Flood control district preparing for Wednesday's Valley
monsoon storms

What happened in debate between Arizona school chief
candidates

Peoria police credit Flock cameras for finding missing man

No one hurt in Phoenix crash that left truck hanging off
overpass

Arizona State coach sounds off on London travel schedule



--- page 7 ---
 Arizona homeowners get new protections against HOAs

Arizona News
Advertise With Us
About Us
Contact Us
Weather
Programming
Schedule
Meet the Team
Careers
Arizona's Family
5555 N. 7th Ave
Phoenix, AZ 85013
(602) 207-3333
KPHO Public Inspection File
KPHO EEO Report
KTVK Public Inspection File
KTVK EEO Report
FCC Applications
programming@azfamily.com | 602-207-3333
Closed Captioning/Audio Description
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Advertising
DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION
CALIFORNIA PRIVACY NOTICE
Digital Marketing
Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence.
A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026