--- page 1 ---
80
80°
Phoenix
Phoenix, , AZ
AZ
Scottsdale mayor pushes for council review
on Flock camera program
Police say the technology has helped solve crimes; some residents want it
gone
Scottsdale is the latest Arizona city to take a closer look at license plate reader technology amid controversy
over its use by cities and police departments.
By Zach Prelutsky
Published: Sep. 22, 2026 at 4:47 AM UTC | Updated: 10 hours ago

Arizona News
Arizona News
Watch Live
Watch Live
Weather
Weather
Extreme Heat
Extreme Heat
Podcasts
Podcasts

ADVERTISEMENT
Share



--- page 2 ---
Add Us
On Google
SCOTTSDALE, AZ (AZFamily) — Scottsdale is the latest Arizona city to take a closer look at
license plate reader technology amid controversy over its use by cities and police departments.
Scottsdale Mayor Lisa Borowsky said she has recently heard from residents about the cameras.
“I would say overwhelmingly against,” Borowsky said.
Borowsky is asking the council to review the city’s use of Flock cameras. An item on Tuesday’s
Scottsdale City Council meeting agenda could pave the way for further council action regarding
the system.
“Our chief of police said, ‘Give me a chance to provide you with a memo, a complete summary of
what we do in terms of checks and balances and ensuring that there is no abuse.’ And so he’s
done that, and he did a great job. But I do think time is of the essence right now,” said Borowsky.
“If it was up to me, I would vote against it,” Matt Leprino said.
Leprino moved to Scottsdale earlier this summer, and while he’s only lived in the city for a few
months, he’s heard plenty about the debate over Flock cameras.
“I think privacy is always the number one concern with it, right? So one half of my brain says if
you’re not doing anything wrong, you know, what do you care? On the other half of me, if the data
is not being protected and it’s not secure and it’s being misused for reasons, then it’s a huge
problem,” Leprino said.
Flock cameras came to Scottsdale in 2023, and today there are 85 citywide, but Borowsky wants
current council members to have a say in the program’s future.
“People elect us to make decisions that are policy-oriented, and I do think this is an issue for the
Council to take up and decide on,” Borowsky said.
Scottsdale police say Flock cameras have proven to be an extraordinarily effective and legal tool
for Scottsdale and have helped the department find people, apprehend dangerous offenders,
solve crimes, and protect our community.


--- page 3 ---
Copyright 2026 KTVK/KPHO. All rights reserved.
A department spokesperson shared several cases from the last couple of years with Arizona’s
Family in which ALPR technology has helped the department, ranging from murder investigations
to human trafficking cases, noting how quickly the technology can work.
“License plate reader technology has become an incredibly valuable public
safety and investigative tool for the Scottsdale Police Department. It allows
our officers and detectives to take limited vehicle information and quickly turn
it into actionable investigative leads. In a number of cases, it has helped us
locate violent offenders, recover stolen vehicles, find vulnerable missing
people, identify suspects, and intervene before additional crimes could occur.
Our ALPR program is not a mass surveillance system and is not used in that
way. It is subject to strict policies, retention limits, and oversight.”
— Scottsdale Police Public Information Officer Aaron Bolin
Borowsky said she has concerns about the technology but is still undecided on how the city
should move forward with Flock.
“I haven’t decided yet, so I don’t want to commit to my position. I do have my concerns and that’s
why I brought it forward and asked for a meeting as soon as possible,” Borowsky said.
If passed, Tuesday’s agenda item would put a presentation, discussion and possible action on the
entire ALPR program on Scottsdale City Council’s Oct. 20 meeting.
See a spelling or grammatical error in our story? Please click here to report it.
Do you have a photo or video of a breaking news story? Send it to us here with a brief
description.
Leave Some Honey Out


--- page 4 ---
Pets Daily Health | Sponsored
Leave Some Honey Out
For Your Dog Overnight,…
Learn More
Blinkist Magazine | Sponsored
Yahoo | Sponsored
Related Searches
Search for Best Car Insurance Seniors Over 70 on Yahoo. View top results now.
Learn more
I Asked ChatGPT What Rich People Do Differently. It Gave Me One Word.
Not stocks. Not crypto. Not connections. The AI kept circling back to something far more ordinary — and far 
more powerful.
Sakura Knives | Sponsored
Hiroshi Closes His Knife Shop After 55 Years
Learn More
Auto Insurance | Sponsored
Arizona: Worst Car Insurance Companies for Overcharging (Is Yours …
Learn more
Health Wellness | Sponsored
The Little Blue Tablet That's Bringing Couples Closer
Men over 50 are quietly adding this rapid-dissolve supplement to their day— and their partners are noticing the 
difference.
Learn More
Topsseek | Sponsored
This Solar Dragon Light Makes Gardens Feel Enchanted
Shop Now
The Richest Person Alive Spends Five Hours a Week on Something Most People Quit in
School
It is not networking. It is not investing. It is the one habit that quietly separates the curious from everyone else.


--- page 5 ---
Blinkist Magazine | Sponsored
Most Read
ADVERTISEMENT
 2 hikers who died in Grand Canyon floods ID’d. 1
remains missing
 Arizona man taped to seat after alleged unruly behavior
on American Airlines flight
 Arizona corrections ID found on Sinaloa Cartel arms
trafficking suspect near Mexican border
 Arizona high school football season canceled amid criminal investigation


--- page 6 ---
Latest News
 Harkins Theatres is no longer screening movies
released by A24; here’s why
 State, tribal authorities crack down on child trafficking
at Arizona casino
 ‘Never experienced that’: Witness describes chaotic,
deadly shooting scene in Scottsdale
 New law makes lane splitting a costlier risk for
motorcyclists in Arizona
 Scottsdale Unified to hear public input on 3 campus
consolidation, closure proposals


--- page 7 ---
Which Scottsdale schools could close? Board to weigh 3
options

 Arizona Cardinals CB Will Johnson potentially out for
season
Cardinals' cornerback Will Johnson likely out for season

 Families push Arizona lawmakers for more cold case
funding
 Officials recover man’s body from remote area of
Mohave County
Families push Arizona lawmakers for more cold case
funding

Body found in Burro Creek in western Arizona


--- page 8 ---


Arizona News
Advertise With Us
About Us
Contact Us
Weather
Programming
Schedule
Meet the Team
Careers
Arizona's Family
5555 N. 7th Ave
Phoenix, AZ 85013
(602) 207-3333
KPHO Public Inspection File
KPHO EEO Report
KTVK Public Inspection File
KTVK EEO Report
FCC Applications
programming@azfamily.com | 602-207-3333
Closed Captioning/Audio Description
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Advertising
DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION
CALIFORNIA PRIVACY NOTICE
Digital Marketing
Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence.
A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026