Peoria police say missing 82-year-old found safe thanks to Flock cameras Skip to content Your Life Arizona Feed Arizona Families Silver Apple Surprise Squad Field Trip Friday Arizona News Watch Live Weather Extreme Heat Podcasts Latest Videos News Tips Seen On TV Share Videos Sign In Sign In Home Election 2026 Watch Live Mobile & Smart TV Apps Seen on TV Share Your Videos & Photos Arizona News The Conversation Nancy Guthrie Investigation Phoenix News East Valley News West Valley News Northern Arizona News Yuma News True Crime Arizona Arizona Wildfires Health News Technology Education US & World Arizona Housing and Real Estate Adoptable Pets Pets & Animals Weather Weather Cams Weather Maps Weather News Weather App Alerts Rainfall Totals Science and Climate Air Quality Monsoon Drought Extreme Heat Radar Politics Politics Unplugged National Politics Immigration Podcasts Generation AI Sonoran Sky Beyond the Next Chapter Here Before, Hear Now Arizona's Family Investigates Jaime's Local Love On Your Side Politics Unplugged True Crime Arizona Podcast The Extra Point Speak of the Devils On Your Side On Your Side: The Home Edition Contact Us FAQs On Your Side Podcast Investigations Contact Arizona's Family Investigates Dirty Dining Traffic Sports NCAA Tournament WM Phoenix Open Arizona Diamondbacks Arizona Cardinals Phoenix Suns Phoenix Mercury Phoenix Rising Arizona State Sports Network High School Sports Grand Canyon Good Morning Arizona Happy Hour Spots Jaime's Local Love Something Good Field Trip Friday Bands Recipes Your Life Arizona Entertainment Original with Yetta Arizona Highways TV Movie Reviews Travel Community Route 66 La Familia de Arizona St. Jude Children's Research Hospital Feed AZ Children Surprise Squad Silver Apple Something Good In the Community with Susan Casper Finding Forever Community Calendar Memorials Request an Emcee About Us Submit Photos and Videos Newsletter Meet the Team Contact Us Careers Request an Emcee FCC Public Inspection File Programming Schedule Arizona’s Family Sports Contests Games NextGen TV Circle Country Local News Live PowerNation InvestigateTV Watching Your Wallet Digital Marketing Gray AI Policy 4 weather alerts in effect Peoria police say missing 82-year-old found safe thanks to Flock cameras The man’s wife gave police the car he was driving and its license plate number, which was entered into the Flock system. Police say an 82-year-old man reported missing was found safe hours later thanks to Flock cameras. Zach Prelutsky reports why some don't support the tech. By Zach Prelutsky Published: Sep. 16, 2026 at 4:26 AM UTC | Updated: 7 hours ago Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google PEORIA, AZ (AZFamily) — Peoria police say an 82-year-old man who had been reported missing on Monday was found safe hours later thanks to Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) cameras. On Monday, a woman called Peoria police to report that her husband never made it to a scheduled doctor’s appointment and was concerned because that was unusual for him. He also suffers from multiple medical conditions, as well as reported cognitive decline. “Traditionally, we probably would not have found him unless he returned home because we would have not known where in the Valley he was at,” said Commander Jason Tarrant with Peoria Police during a press conference on Tuesday. The man’s wife gave police the car he was driving and its license plate number, which was entered into the Flock system. Peoria police say the system gave officers information about the vehicle’s location and direction. He had been tracked driving as far away as Scottsdale. Eventually the man was found by officers on Bell Road just outside of Peoria, nearly out of fuel and unaware of where he had been. “This is probably the single most impactful tool that I have seen in the law enforcement realm because it’s able to scan every vehicle,” said Peoria Police Chief Thomas Intrieri. A recent Flock network audit obtained by Arizona’s Family through a public records request found that between July 14 and Aug. 14, Peoria police made 1,290 searches of the Flock system with 152 of those being for missing, endangered or runaway people. Not everybody in the city is in favor of this technology, even in lieu of this week’s success story. During public comment in Tuesday’s Peoria City Council meeting, multiple people spoke up with concerns about this technology and its presence in the city. “We generally support the competitive edge against local crime and saving lives, absolutely, but deploying a city-scaled surveillance system interconnected with neighboring jurisdictions through the same vendor without tactical comms, a road map. It’s just an egregious breach of our trust honestly,” one woman said. Peoria police began using Flock cameras in early 2025 and now have 79 ALPR cameras around the city, recently adding four more. Chief Intrieri said there have not been any conversations of canceling the Flock contract. “We recognize this is merely a technology that requires human intervention,” he said. See a spelling or grammatical error in our story? Please click here to report it . Do you have a photo or video of a breaking news story? Send it to us here with a brief description. Copyright 2026 KTVK/KPHO. All rights reserved. Most Read 2 hikers who died in Grand Canyon floods ID’d. 1 remains missing Arrest warrant issued for 2024 presidential candidate Jill Stein Arizona man taped to seat after alleged unruly behavior on American Airlines flight Arizona corrections ID found on Sinaloa Cartel arms trafficking suspect near Mexican border Arizona high school football season canceled amid criminal investigation Harkins Theatres is no longer screening movies released by A24; here’s why ‘Never experienced that’: Witness describes chaotic, deadly shooting scene in Scottsdale Wall of dust, heavy rain and power outages hit Phoenix area overnight Latest News Flood control district takes action as Phoenix-area storm chances increase Flood control district preparing for Wednesday's Valley monsoon storms What happened in debate between Arizona school chief candidates Peoria police credit Flock cameras for finding missing man No one hurt in Phoenix crash that left truck hanging off overpass Arizona State coach sounds off on London travel schedule Arizona homeowners get new protections against HOAs Arizona News Advertise With Us About Us Contact Us Weather Programming Schedule Meet the Team Careers Arizona's Family 5555 N. 7th Ave Phoenix, AZ 85013 (602) 207-3333 KPHO Public Inspection File KPHO EEO Report KTVK Public Inspection File KTVK EEO Report FCC Applications programming@azfamily.com | 602-207-3333 Closed Captioning/Audio Description Terms of Service Privacy Policy Advertising DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION CALIFORNIA PRIVACY NOTICE Digital Marketing Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence. A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026 search by queryly Advanced Search