Scottsdale mayor pushes for council review on Flock camera program Skip to content Your Life Arizona Feed Arizona Families Silver Apple Surprise Squad Field Trip Friday 80° Phoenix, AZ Arizona News Watch Live Weather Extreme Heat Podcasts Latest Videos News Tips Seen On TV Share Videos Sign In Sign In Home Election 2026 Watch Live Mobile & Smart TV Apps Seen on TV Share Your Videos & Photos Arizona News The Conversation Nancy Guthrie Investigation Phoenix News East Valley News West Valley News Northern Arizona News Yuma News True Crime Arizona Arizona Wildfires Health News Technology Education US & World Arizona Housing and Real Estate Adoptable Pets Pets & Animals Weather Weather Cams Weather Maps Weather News Weather App Alerts Rainfall Totals Science and Climate Air Quality Monsoon Drought Extreme Heat Radar Politics Politics Unplugged National Politics Immigration Podcasts Generation AI Sonoran Sky Beyond the Next Chapter Here Before, Hear Now Arizona's Family Investigates Jaime's Local Love On Your Side Politics Unplugged True Crime Arizona Podcast The Extra Point Speak of the Devils On Your Side On Your Side: The Home Edition Contact Us FAQs On Your Side Podcast Investigations Contact Arizona's Family Investigates Dirty Dining Traffic Sports NCAA Tournament WM Phoenix Open Arizona Diamondbacks Arizona Cardinals Phoenix Suns Phoenix Mercury Phoenix Rising Arizona State Sports Network High School Sports Grand Canyon Good Morning Arizona Happy Hour Spots Jaime's Local Love Something Good Field Trip Friday Bands Recipes Your Life Arizona Entertainment Original with Yetta Arizona Highways TV Movie Reviews Travel Community Route 66 La Familia de Arizona St. Jude Children's Research Hospital Feed AZ Children Surprise Squad Silver Apple Something Good In the Community with Susan Casper Finding Forever Community Calendar Memorials Request an Emcee About Us Submit Photos and Videos Newsletter Meet the Team Contact Us Careers Request an Emcee FCC Public Inspection File Programming Schedule Arizona’s Family Sports Contests Games NextGen TV Circle Country Local News Live PowerNation InvestigateTV Watching Your Wallet Digital Marketing Gray AI Policy Scottsdale mayor pushes for council review on Flock camera program Police say the technology has helped solve crimes; some residents want it gone Scottsdale is the latest Arizona city to take a closer look at license plate reader technology amid controversy over its use by cities and police departments. By Zach Prelutsky Published: Sep. 22, 2026 at 4:47 AM UTC | Updated: 10 hours ago Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google SCOTTSDALE, AZ (AZFamily) — Scottsdale is the latest Arizona city to take a closer look at license plate reader technology amid controversy over its use by cities and police departments. Scottsdale Mayor Lisa Borowsky said she has recently heard from residents about the cameras. “I would say overwhelmingly against,” Borowsky said. Borowsky is asking the council to review the city’s use of Flock cameras. An item on Tuesday’s Scottsdale City Council meeting agenda could pave the way for further council action regarding the system. “Our chief of police said, ‘Give me a chance to provide you with a memo, a complete summary of what we do in terms of checks and balances and ensuring that there is no abuse.’ And so he’s done that, and he did a great job. But I do think time is of the essence right now,” said Borowsky. “If it was up to me, I would vote against it,” Matt Leprino said. Leprino moved to Scottsdale earlier this summer, and while he’s only lived in the city for a few months, he’s heard plenty about the debate over Flock cameras. “I think privacy is always the number one concern with it, right? So one half of my brain says if you’re not doing anything wrong, you know, what do you care? On the other half of me, if the data is not being protected and it’s not secure and it’s being misused for reasons, then it’s a huge problem,” Leprino said. Flock cameras came to Scottsdale in 2023, and today there are 85 citywide, but Borowsky wants current council members to have a say in the program’s future. “People elect us to make decisions that are policy-oriented, and I do think this is an issue for the Council to take up and decide on,” Borowsky said. Scottsdale police say Flock cameras have proven to be an extraordinarily effective and legal tool for Scottsdale and have helped the department find people, apprehend dangerous offenders, solve crimes, and protect our community. A department spokesperson shared several cases from the last couple of years with Arizona’s Family in which ALPR technology has helped the department, ranging from murder investigations to human trafficking cases, noting how quickly the technology can work. “License plate reader technology has become an incredibly valuable public safety and investigative tool for the Scottsdale Police Department. It allows our officers and detectives to take limited vehicle information and quickly turn it into actionable investigative leads. In a number of cases, it has helped us locate violent offenders, recover stolen vehicles, find vulnerable missing people, identify suspects, and intervene before additional crimes could occur. Our ALPR program is not a mass surveillance system and is not used in that way. It is subject to strict policies, retention limits, and oversight.” Scottsdale Police Public Information Officer Aaron Bolin Borowsky said she has concerns about the technology but is still undecided on how the city should move forward with Flock. “I haven’t decided yet, so I don’t want to commit to my position. I do have my concerns and that’s why I brought it forward and asked for a meeting as soon as possible,” Borowsky said. If passed, Tuesday’s agenda item would put a presentation, discussion and possible action on the entire ALPR program on Scottsdale City Council’s Oct. 20 meeting. See a spelling or grammatical error in our story? Please click here to report it . Do you have a photo or video of a breaking news story? Send it to us here with a brief description. Copyright 2026 KTVK/KPHO. All rights reserved. Most Read 2 hikers who died in Grand Canyon floods ID’d. 1 remains missing Arizona man taped to seat after alleged unruly behavior on American Airlines flight Arizona corrections ID found on Sinaloa Cartel arms trafficking suspect near Mexican border Arizona high school football season canceled amid criminal investigation Harkins Theatres is no longer screening movies released by A24; here’s why State, tribal authorities crack down on child trafficking at Arizona casino ‘Never experienced that’: Witness describes chaotic, deadly shooting scene in Scottsdale New law makes lane splitting a costlier risk for motorcyclists in Arizona Latest News Scottsdale Unified to hear public input on 3 campus consolidation, closure proposals Which Scottsdale schools could close? Board to weigh 3 options Arizona Cardinals CB Will Johnson potentially out for season Cardinals' cornerback Will Johnson likely out for season Families push Arizona lawmakers for more cold case funding Officials recover man’s body from remote area of Mohave County Families push Arizona lawmakers for more cold case funding Body found in Burro Creek in western Arizona Arizona News Advertise With Us About Us Contact Us Weather Programming Schedule Meet the Team Careers Arizona's Family 5555 N. 7th Ave Phoenix, AZ 85013 (602) 207-3333 KPHO Public Inspection File KPHO EEO Report KTVK Public Inspection File KTVK EEO Report FCC Applications programming@azfamily.com | 602-207-3333 Closed Captioning/Audio Description Terms of Service Privacy Policy Advertising DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION CALIFORNIA PRIVACY NOTICE Digital Marketing Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence. A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026 search by queryly Advanced Search