--- page 1 ---
https://www.wpsdlocal6.com/news/flock-safety-cameras-spark-privacy-debate-in-
paducah/article_72e31c6a-7c94-405b-996c-c8125755007e.html
Flock Safety cameras spark privacy debate in Paducah
John Yeley
Jun 24, 2026
PADUCAH — Across the country, an
increasing number of cities are ending
their contracts with Flock Safety, the
company that provides AI-powered license
plate-reading cameras for law enforcement
nationwide. Concerns have been raised
about how the data is being collected and
used, with some calling it an invasion of
privacy amid fears of unauthorized federal
access.
Paducah resident Jason Duffey said he
understands the need for cameras in
public areas but doesn’t see the need for
them in residential areas, such as his own.
A Flock Safety camera points at the road off Kentucky
Avenue on June 24.
John Yeley

--- page 2 ---
“I don’t really find that to be the proper use of using a Flock camera, because the purpose is to
protect or help the police with people maybe moving different places in and out of the city,
but putting a Flock camera in a residential area facing individuals’ properties, that is a concern
to me, because that’s constant monitoring,” said Duffey.
As that concern grows locally, Paducah Police Chief Brian Laird explained how the Flock
cameras have been beneficial, adding that policies are in place to protect the collected data.
“I think it’s important for the community to know that we have strict policies related to
accessing that data; for our officers to have access to that data, there has to be a reason, and
that’s documented. We conduct audits quarterly on access into the Flock system,” said Laird.
According to NPR, more than 30 cities across the country have halted the use of Flock cameras.
One notable example includes Denver, Colorado. The city removed 110 flock cameras at the
end of March, citing concerns about how the company handles the potentially sensitive
information the systems gather on citizens.
“We do share our information or access into our camera systems with hundreds of police
departments all across the country, so that’s important, because they also share that with us,
and without that sharing of information, we wouldn’t be as successful in preventing and
stopping crime,” said Laird.
Laird noted that Flock cameras have been in use in Paducah for four years now and have
achieved demonstrable results. Furthermore, Laird does not believe the system is being
misused.
“We do not think that it’s something that is
being abused here in our community. It’s
been very successful, and we look forward
to, you know, a good partnership and
utilizing that resource. You know, policing
has to evolve because the criminals are
evolving, and in order to keep a community
safe, you should utilize any resources that

--- page 3 ---
John Yeley
Producer + Reporter
you have available to you, obviously, with
keeping people’s rights in mind as well,”
said Laird.
Duffey remained unconvinced of the
practicality of the current tactics being utilized with the technology.
“I don’t think it’s really a proper use of government funding,” he said. “You know, those
cameras are expensive, and the service is expensive, and I don’t really think the city or any of
the residents understand how it works, and when you use it in a way where it’s not disclosed,
and you don’t disclose it to the residents of the neighborhood, I don’t really feel like that is
proper use of police enforcement.”
Laird confirmed that 32 Flock Safety cameras are currently operating throughout Paducah,
crediting them with the arrest of multiple fugitives since their deployment.
“They’ve been pretty effective for us with crime — fighting crime, stopping crime,” Laird said.
“We implemented them initially as a trial period with two cameras, and then each year since
then we’ve increased the number. The goal was to strategically place them throughout the city
on the main thoroughfares so that if there are vehicles that are coming into our city that are
suspects in crimes or they’re stolen vehicles or missing persons that we would be able to
locate them — especially the ones that are coming here to commit crime — before they actually
do so.”
Laird confirmed that 32 Flock Safety cameras are currently
operating throughout Paducah, crediting them with the
arrest of multiple fugitives since their deployment.
John Yeley