Flock Safety cameras spark privacy debate in Paducah | <span class="tnt-section-tag no-link">News</span> | WPSD Local 6 Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close WPSD About Us Submit A Tip Subscribe to Our Newsletter News Local News Kentucky News Illinois News Tennessee News Missouri News National News International News Meeting Agendas The Crossroads Suncast Weather Interactive Radar Map Room Skytracker Weather Cams Dog Walking Forecast Weather Authority Blog Snowman 6 Weather Window Sports Full Court Press Gridiron Glory Performance of the Week High School Sports Murray State Racers College Sports Pro Sports Big Ol' Fish Helping Others Forever Home Friday Feline Furs-day Mug Monday Super Shredder Beat The Heat St. Jude Dream Home Watch Now Weather Livestream Daily Weather Latest Videos Live Newscast Health Experts Home Experts Legal Line Puzzles Flipart Really Bad Chess SpellTower Typeshift Podcasts The Crossroads Suncast Leadership Magnified with Todd Faulkner Storytime with Mike Mallory Full Timeout with Adam Wells Oversteer 6 The Morning 6 Facebook Twitter iOS App Android App About Weather Window Contests stories of strength Submit A Tip 72° Facebook Twitter iOS App Android App Search Site search Search WPSD About Us Submit A Tip Subscribe to Our Newsletter News Local News Kentucky News Illinois News Tennessee News Missouri News National News International News Meeting Agendas The Crossroads Suncast Weather Interactive Radar Map Room Skytracker Weather Cams Dog Walking Forecast Weather Authority Blog Snowman 6 Weather Window Sports Full Court Press Gridiron Glory Performance of the Week High School Sports Murray State Racers College Sports Pro Sports Big Ol' Fish Helping Others Forever Home Friday Feline Furs-day Mug Monday Super Shredder Beat The Heat St. Jude Dream Home Watch Now Weather Livestream Daily Weather Latest Videos Live Newscast Health Experts Home Experts Legal Line Puzzles Flipart Really Bad Chess SpellTower Typeshift Podcasts The Crossroads Suncast Leadership Magnified with Todd Faulkner Storytime with Mike Mallory Full Timeout with Adam Wells Oversteer 6 The Morning 6 Weather Alert Weather Authority Alert activated for Sunday ahead of intense heat and humidity Updated Jun 26, 2026 Close A Flock Safety camera points at the road off Kentucky Avenue on June 24. John Yeley Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Laird confirmed that 32 Flock Safety cameras are currently operating throughout Paducah, crediting them with the arrest of multiple fugitives since their deployment. John Yeley Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Flock Safety cameras spark privacy debate in Paducah John Yeley John Yeley Producer + Reporter Author linkedin Author email Jun 24, 2026 Jun 24, 2026 Updated Jun 25, 2026 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Video Player is loading. Play Video Play Skip Backward Skip Forward Mute Current Time 0:00 / Duration 0:00 Loaded : 0% Stream Type LIVE Seek to live, currently behind live LIVE Remaining Time - 0:00 1x Playback Rate Chapters Chapters Descriptions descriptions off , selected Captions captions settings , opens captions settings dialog captions off , selected Audio Track Picture-in-Picture Fullscreen This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. Text Color White Black Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Opacity Opaque Semi-Transparent Text Background Color Black White Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Opacity Opaque Semi-Transparent Transparent Caption Area Background Color Black White Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Opacity Transparent Semi-Transparent Opaque Font Size 50% 75% 100% 125% 150% 175% 200% 300% 400% Text Edge Style None Raised Depressed Uniform Drop shadow Font Family Proportional Sans-Serif Monospace Sans-Serif Proportional Serif Monospace Serif Casual Script Small Caps Reset Done Close Modal Dialog End of dialog window. A Flock Safety camera points at the road off Kentucky Avenue on June 24. John Yeley PADUCAH — Across the country, an increasing number of cities are ending their contracts with Flock Safety, the company that provides AI-powered license plate-reading cameras for law enforcement nationwide. Concerns have been raised about how the data is being collected and used, with some calling it an invasion of privacy amid fears of unauthorized federal access. Paducah resident Jason Duffey said he understands the need for cameras in public areas but doesn’t see the need for them in residential areas, such as his own. “I don’t really find that to be the proper use of using a Flock camera, because the purpose is to protect or help the police with people maybe moving different places in and out of the city, but putting a Flock camera in a residential area facing individuals’ properties, that is a concern to me, because that’s constant monitoring,” said Duffey. As that concern grows locally, Paducah Police Chief Brian Laird explained how the Flock cameras have been beneficial, adding that policies are in place to protect the collected data. “I think it’s important for the community to know that we have strict policies related to accessing that data; for our officers to have access to that data, there has to be a reason, and that’s documented. We conduct audits quarterly on access into the Flock system,” said Laird. According to NPR, more than 30 cities across the country have halted the use of Flock cameras. One notable example includes Denver, Colorado. The city removed 110 flock cameras at the end of March , citing concerns about how the company handles the potentially sensitive information the systems gather on citizens. “We do share our information or access into our camera systems with hundreds of police departments all across the country, so that’s important, because they also share that with us, and without that sharing of information, we wouldn’t be as successful in preventing and stopping crime,” said Laird. Laird noted that Flock cameras have been in use in Paducah for four years now and have achieved demonstrable results. Furthermore, Laird does not believe the system is being misused. Laird confirmed that 32 Flock Safety cameras are currently operating throughout Paducah, crediting them with the arrest of multiple fugitives since their deployment. John Yeley “We do not think that it’s something that is being abused here in our community. It’s been very successful, and we look forward to, you know, a good partnership and utilizing that resource. You know, policing has to evolve because the criminals are evolving, and in order to keep a community safe, you should utilize any resources that you have available to you, obviously, with keeping people’s rights in mind as well,” said Laird. Duffey remained unconvinced of the practicality of the current tactics being utilized with the technology. “I don’t think it’s really a proper use of government funding,” he said. “You know, those cameras are expensive, and the service is expensive, and I don’t really think the city or any of the residents understand how it works, and when you use it in a way where it’s not disclosed, and you don’t disclose it to the residents of the neighborhood, I don’t really feel like that is proper use of police enforcement.” Laird confirmed that 32 Flock Safety cameras are currently operating throughout Paducah, crediting them with the arrest of multiple fugitives since their deployment. “They’ve been pretty effective for us with crime — fighting crime, stopping crime,” Laird said. “We implemented them initially as a trial period with two cameras, and then each year since then we’ve increased the number. The goal was to strategically place them throughout the city on the main thoroughfares so that if there are vehicles that are coming into our city that are suspects in crimes or they’re stolen vehicles or missing persons that we would be able to locate them — especially the ones that are coming here to commit crime — before they actually do so.” Featured Local Savings Featured Local Savings Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Tags Surveillance Automatic Identification And Data Capture Automatic Number Plate Recognition Flock Safety Brian Laird Jason Duffey Paducah, Kentucky Artificial Intelligence Law Enforcement Camera Systems John Yeley Producer + Reporter Author linkedin Author email Follow John Yeley Weather Forecast 1 Weather Alert See All > Weather Alert ...EXTREME HEAT WARNING REMAINS IN EFFECT UNTIL 8 PM CDT /9 PM EDT/ THIS EVENING... ...HEAT ADVISORY REMAINS IN EFFECT FROM 8 PM CDT /9 PM EDT/ THIS EVENING TO 8 PM CDT /9 PM EDT/ SATURDAY... * WHAT...For the Extreme Heat Warning today, dangerously hot conditions with peak heat index values up to near 110 degrees. For the Heat Advisory tomorrow, heat index values peak up to around 105 degrees. * WHERE...All of southern Illinois, southwest Indiana, western Kentucky, and southeast Missouri. * WHEN...For the Extreme Heat Warning, until 8 PM CDT /9 PM EDT/ this evening. For the Heat Advisory, from 8 PM CDT /9 PM EDT/ this evening to 8 PM CDT /9 PM EDT/ Saturday. * IMPACTS...Heat related illnesses increase significantly during extreme heat and high humidity events. Hot temperatures and high humidity may cause heat illnesses. * ADDITIONAL DETAILS...Overnight lows in the mid 70s will provide little relief during this prolonged, extended duration of dangerously high heat and humidity. PRECAUTIONARY/PREPAREDNESS ACTIONS... Drink plenty of fluids, stay in an air-conditioned room, stay out of the sun, and check up on relatives and neighbors. Take extra precautions when outside. Wear lightweight and loose fitting clothing. Try to limit strenuous activities to early morning or evening. Take action when you see symptoms of heat exhaustion and heat stroke. Monitor the latest forecasts and warnings for updates. To reduce risk during outdoor work, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration recommends scheduling frequent rest breaks in shaded or air conditioned environments. Anyone overcome by heat should be moved to a cool and shaded location. Heat stroke is an emergency! Call 9 1 1. && Currently in Paducah 72° Clear 96° / 72° Contact Us wpsdlocal6.com 408 Kentucky Avenue Paducah, KY 42003 Phone: 270-415-1900 Email: newstip@wpsdlocal6.com Facebook Twitter iOS App Android App Services About Us Contact Us Meet The News Team Programming Privacy Policy Artificial Intelligence Policy Closed Captioning FCC Public File WPSD EEO Report Contest Rules Job Openings Our Apps Puzzles × Browser Compatibility Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks. We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Microsoft Edge Google Chrome Firefox © Copyright 2026 WPSD Local 6 408 Kentucky Avenue, Paducah, KY | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital .