source: packet.pdf
sha256: 14e9107593f485af274f4fa58c7c17d4d389546bb527eeec0cc2cf614caa3181
pages: 574
ocr_pages: 137
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Agenda
May 4, 2020
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Joe Goethals, Mayor
Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor
Rick Bonilla
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/83626787202?pwd=NkRqSmljckQ4eHN6ejN1MTFhSTFBZz09
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968 Enter Conference ID: 836 2678 7202
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council's regular and special meeting of of April 20, 2020 and the special meeting
of April 27, 2020.
2.
Disposition of the Property Jointly Owned by the City Attorney and the City of San Mateo
Direct the City Attorney to proceed with the sale of the property jointly owned by the City Attorney and the City
of San Mateo to a third party, with the proceeds being split between the City Attorney and the City of San Mateo
based on the original agreement, as modified as requested by the City Attorney.
3.
Seamless Bay Area - Integrated Public Transit Support
Adopt a Resolution to support Seamless Bay Area’s “Seamless Transit Principles” which commits to working
collaboratively with other agencies to develop a highly integrated regional transportation system.
4.
City-Owned Poles ExteNet Systems - Master License Agreement
Approve a Master License Agreement with ExteNet Systems, LLC to allow small cell installations on City owned
poles.
1 of 574

--- page 2 ---
5.
Public Works Backhoe Purchase – Contract
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing to approve a contract with Sonsray Machinery for the
purchase of one CASE 580SN backhoe in the amount of $137,259.09; and authorize the Public Works Director to
execute the contract in substantially the form presented.
6.
Clean Water Program Construction Monitoring Services - Agreement
Approve a professional services agreement with Terraphase Engineering, Inc. for construction monitoring support
services for the Clean Water Program’s Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and Expansion Project and
Underground Flow Equalization System Project, in amount not-to-exceed $588,330; establish a contingency of
$50,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented
and issue change orders within the contingency amount .
7.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade Construction Services - Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the agreement with Sundt Construction, Inc. for services to construct the second
package of the Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and Expansion Project for a Guaranteed Maximum Price of
$17,716,049; approve a contingency reserve in the amount of $1,645,000; and authorize the Public Works
Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the
contingency amount.
8.
North Shoreview Flood Improvement Construction Management Services - Agreement
Approve an agreement with 4Leaf, Inc. for construction management services on the North Shoreview Flood
Improvement project in the amount of $2,693,541, establish a contingency reserve of $270,000, and authorize
the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue amendments
within the contingency reserve.
9.
Underground Flow Equalization System Project – Construction Contract
Award a contract to Anderson Pacific Engineering Construction, Inc. for construction of the Underground Flow
Equalization System Project in an amount of $55,277,330; establish a contingency of $4,500,000 for a total not to
exceed amount of $59,777,330; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially
the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
10.
North Shoreview Flood Improvements Project – Construction Contract
Award a contract to Anderson Pacific Engineering Construction, Inc. for construction of the North Shoreview
Flood Improvements Project in an amount of $23,927,600; establish a contingency reserve of $2,390,000 for a
total amount not to exceed $26,317,600; authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in
substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount; and adopt a Resolution
to authorize an appropriation in the amount of $5,100,000 from Flood and Street Bonds, as well as transfer
$1,323,000 from the Trash Capture Device at Coyote Point Project and $150,000 from Trash Recapture Project to
the North Shoreview Flood Improvement Project.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
2 of 574

--- page 3 ---
OLD BUSINESS
11.
COVID-19 Update (#7)
Receive update on operational impacts and other City efforts related to COVID-19 and confirm rules and
regulations issued by the City Manager acting as the Director of Emergency Services in response to declared
emergency.
12.
Calling Election on Ballot Measure relating to the Extension of Measure P Policies
Receive report from the City Attorney and provide direction to City staff on scheduling the action calling the
regular election on the qualified ballot measure on a future City Council agenda.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the
agenda will be made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are
muted by default. To speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. To
indicate you want to provide public comment, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to
participate in this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours
prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
3 of 574

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-2991
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Department
MEETING DATE:
May 04, 2020 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the City Council's regular and special meeting of of April 20, 2020 and the special meeting of April 
27, 2020.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Special Meeting Minutes 4-20-20 
Att 2 - Regular Meeting Minutes 4-20-20 
Att 3 - Special Meeting Minutes 4-27-20
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk 
polds@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7042
4 of 574

--- page 5 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 04/20/2020
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Joe Goethals, Mayor
Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor
Rick Bonilla
Diane Papan
Amourence Lee
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Monday, April 20, 2020
Remote 5:30 PM
Special Meeting
 
This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s Executive Order N-29-20; 
in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the Coronavirus Covid-19 health 
emergency. 
CALL TO ORDER
 
Roll Call
Remote:    Mayor Goethals, Deputy Mayor Rodriguez, Council Members: Bonilla, Papan and Lee 
CLOSED SESSION
Following the opportunity for public comment, there were no speakers the City Council convened into closed session to 
consider:
1.
Conference with Legal Counsel - Existing Litigation
(Paragraph (1) of Subdivision (d) of Government Code Section 54956.9)
Workers' Compensation Claim James Vann
Workers' Compensation Claim Ramon Mendoza Lopez
Workers' Compensation Claim Joshua Puga 
OLD BUSINESS
2.
2020-21 Budget Development – Preliminary Review
Council convened the study session at 6:00 pm. Finance Director Rich Lee provided an informational report on the 
development of the fiscal year 2020-21 budget. Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment – There were no 
speakers. 
ADJOURNMENT 
The Meeting adjourned at 7:00 pm.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                                                                                                                 
Joe Goethals, Mayor                                                   Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
5 of 574

--- page 6 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 04/20/20
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Joe Goethals, Mayor
Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor
Rick Bonilla
Diane Papan
Amourence Lee
City of San Mateo 
Regular Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Monday, April 6, 2020
Remote 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency. 
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
Remote:    Mayor Goethals, Deputy Mayor Rodriguez, Council Members: Bonilla, Papan and Lee 
CONSENT CALENDAR 
The following items, 1 through 8, were considered to be routine by the City Council. After the titles of the items were 
read by the City Clerk, the public was invited to comment and there were no speakers. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Bonilla, Seconded: Rodriguez
Ayes: 
Goethals, Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan and Lee
Noes: 
None
1.
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council’s Regular meeting of April 6, 2020 and the Special meeting of April 13, 2020.
 
2.
Public Assistance Cost Recovery – Designation of Authority for Expense Reimbursement
Adopt a Resolution to designate the City Manager and Finance Director as the agents of the City of San Mateo for the 
purposes of obtaining federal and/or state financial assistance.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 32 (2020)
 
3.
Community Development Block Grant Funds – Supplemental Appropriation
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $40,000 from available Community Development Block Grant entitlement funds 
from prior years into the 2019-20 operating budget.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 33 (2020)
 
4.
Fiscal Year 2019-20 Budget Appropriation
Adopt a Resolution to transfer and appropriate $3,500,000 from the General Fund's available fund balance to the 
Workers’ Compensation Fund's current year budget; $150,000 from the General Fund’s available fund balance to the 
Public Works current year operating budget; and $700,000 from the Construction Services Fund’s available fund 
balance to the General Fund. 
Enactment:  Resolution No. 34 (2020)
6 of 574

--- page 7 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 04/20/20
Page 2
5.
San Mateo - Foster City Public Financing Authority Joint Exercise of Powers Agreement - Amendment
Adopt a Resolution to amend the San Mateo - Foster City Public Financing Authority Joint Exercise of Powers 
Agreement with regard to the assignment of roles for the Treasurer-Auditor-Controller and the Clerk; amend 
insurance language; and outline payment changes for the extended roles.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 35 (2020)
 
6.
Microfiche, Microfilm, and Paper Records Digitization and Ongoing Document Scanning Services - Agreement
Approve an agreement with BMI Imaging Systems, Inc. for microfilm, paper records digitization, and ongoing 
document scanning services in the amount not to exceed $400,000; and authorize the Community Development 
Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
 
7.
Foster City Usage of Police Firing Range Facilities – Agreement
Approve an agreement with the City of Foster City for use of the San Mateo Police Department firing range for an 
hourly rate of $65 with a term through June 30, 2023; and authorize the Chief of Police to execute the agreement.
 
8.
City of San Bruno Usage of Police Firing Range Facilities – Agreement
Approve an agreement with the City of San Bruno for use of the San Mateo Police Department firing range for an 
hourly rate of $65 with a term through June 30, 2023; and authorize the Chief of Police to execute the agreement.
 
9.
Classification Updates – City Manager’s Office, Community Development Department and Public Works Department
Adopt a Resolution to approve the; 1) job specifications and salaries for the new classifications of Communications 
Manager and Housing and Neighborhood Services Manager; 2) reclassifications of the Communications and Public 
Relations Analyst to Communications Manager in City Manager’s Office, and the Housing Supervisor to Housing and 
Neighborhood Services Manager in Community Development Department; and 3) revisions to the job specifications 
for the classifications of Maintenance Worker I-II and Wastewater Treatment Plant Mechanic I-II.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 36 (2020)
 
10. Service Employees’ International Union Library Merit Unit - Memorandum of Understanding Amendments
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the Service Employees’ International Union 
(SEIU) Local 521 Library Merit Unit for a term through March 4, 2023.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 37 (2020)
11. Service Employees’ International Union Library Per Diem Unit - Memorandum of Understanding Amendments
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the Service Employees’ International Union 
(SEIU) Local 521 Library Per Diem Unit for a term through March 4, 2023.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 38 (2020)
 
12. Resolution Denouncing Stigmatization, Racism, and Xenophobia
Adopt a Resolution to denounce stigmatization, racism, and xenophobia arising from the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Enactment:  Resolution No. 39 (2020)
7 of 574

--- page 8 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 04/20/20
Page 3
PUBLIC COMMENT
There were no speakers.
PUBLIC HEARING
13. CONTINUED TO A FUTURE DATE: Ordinance Introductions - Municipal Code Amendments Modifying Park Fee Credit 
Threshold and Development Standards for Qualifying 100% Affordable Housing Projects 
The Mayor announced that the introduction of the AB 1763 ordinance will be rescheduled in order for staff to 
conduct further analysis of the ordinance’s potential environmental impacts in accordance with the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The Planning Commission will consider the proposed ordinance and CEQA analysis 
at a future meeting and make a recommendation to the City Council.  
OLD BUSINESS
15. COVID-19 Update
City Manager Drew Corbett provided an update on operational impacts and other City efforts related to COVID-19 
and reviewed the rules and regulations issued by the City Manager acting as the Director of Emergency Services in 
response to declared emergency. He outlined the funding timeline for the Downtown Opportunity Sites project. He 
reviewed the request to contribute to the San Mateo County Strong Fund for the purpose of providing financial 
support to San Mateo small businesses. SAMCEDA President and Chief Executive Officer, Roseanne Foust answered 
questions regarding the fund. Council asked additional questions of staff. Public Comment – Diane Pettit, Jan Stokley, 
Adam Loraine and Emma Shlaes commented on changing street flow for outside social distancing recreation and a 
video produced by Housing Leadership Council was played with comments in support of the MidPen project. Council 
discussion ensued on the appropriate amount and process.
Confirm the rules and regulations issued by the City Manager acting as the Director of Emergency Services in 
response to the declared emergency and adopt a Resolution appropriating funds of $400,000 to San Mateo County 
Strong Fund for small business assistance. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Papan, Seconded: Rodriguez
Ayes: 
Goethals, Rodriguez, Papan, Bonilla, and Lee
Noes: 
None
Enactment:  Resolution No. 40 (2020)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
The City Manager, City Attorney and City Council reported on their various committees and liaison roles. 
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 8:40 p.m
APPROVED BY:
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                           
                                                           
Joe Goethals, Mayor 
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk 
8 of 574

--- page 9 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 04/27/2020
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Joe Goethals, Mayor
Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor
Rick Bonilla
Diane Papan
Amourence Lee
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Monday, April 27, 2020
Remote 6:00 PM
Special Meeting
 
This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s Executive Order N-29-20; 
in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the Coronavirus Covid-19 health 
emergency. 
CALL TO ORDER
 
Pledge of Allegiance 
Roll Call
Remote:    Mayor Goethals, Deputy Mayor Rodriguez, Council Members: Bonilla, Papan and Lee 
OLD BUSINESS
1.
COVID-19 Update
City Manager Drew Corbett provided an update on operational impacts and other City efforts related to COVID-19 
and reviewed rules and regulations issued by the City Manager acting as the Director of Emergency Services in 
response to the declared emergency including adjustments to operations, to deployment of personnel, polling for 
hotel tax measure for 2020 ballot and the status of Council priorities. Public Comment – There were no speakers.
Confirm the rules and regulations issued by the City Manager acting as the Director of Emergency Services in 
response to the declared emergency. Motion Passed 5-0.
Moved:
Papan, Seconded: Bonilla
Ayes: 
Goethals, Rodriguez, Bonilla, Papan and Lee
Noes: 
None
2.
40 Baywood Avenue – Property Donation
Assistant City Manager Kathy Kleinbaum presented key points that the property owner who desires to donate 40 
Baywood has asked the City to consider including joint ownership with Hillsborough, the management role of the 
Trustee, net expenses for managing the property and what the program vision is. Council asked questions of staff 
and discussion ensued with regard to the proposed terms of the donation. Public Comment – There were no 
speakers. 
Council provided direction that the new proposal will not work, it won’t meet the vision of the donor for it to 
remain open to the public, doesn’t make sense for the City of San Mateo, programming differences with 
Hillsborough, different available resources between the two cities, no clarity around the decision making, and if 
they have a different proposal we are open to hearing it. The City Council by consensus affirmed that they are not 
interested in pursuing these proposed terms. 
3.
Planning Application Processing and Public Outreach During and After the Shelter-in-Place Order
Community Development Director Kohar Kojayan introduced new Planning Manager Aaron Aknin to provide a 
presentation on the goals and objectives of public outreach in these changing times and that this is the time to 
9 of 574

--- page 10 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 04/27/2020
Page 2
really modernize our practices to be more inclusive, transparent, and consensus building. The General Plan is 
working on policy and staff will return with a revised long-term plan for community engagement with new tools. 
On May 4, 2020 the city will begin accepting new building and planning applications using remote community 
engagement protocols. Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment – There were no speakers. Council 
expressed appreciation for the update and the work being done to address current needs.
4.
Financial Assistance for Community Child Care Provider
City Manager Drew Corbett provided a presentation on if the City could use the Child Care Facilities Fund to offer 
assistance to child care providers being affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and it would be illegal to use those 
funds for this purpose. He reviewed what resources are currently available in the County and outlined options for 
funding assistance including contributing to already established funds and/or offering rental assistance through 
Community Development Block Grants. Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment – David Fleishman, 
Executive Director, 4Cs (Child Care Coordinating Council) of San Mateo County, provided information on child care 
facilities currently providing essential and emergency child care and available programs. He responded to Council 
questions. 
Council discussion ensued on the issue. Council directed that $120,000 be earmarked for rental assistance specific 
for home child care providers from the $440,000 CDBG funds donated to Samaritan House and directed that staff 
work closely with Samaritan House to monitor the funds usage to adjust and be responsive to changing needs. 
Staff will explore retroactive use of the Child Care Facilities Fund for capital use where allowed.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
The City Manager, City Attorney and City Council reported on various activities and liaison roles and discussion ensued on 
upcoming topics for the next agenda including clarity around what are the criteria for eligible small businesses for the 
business assistance and directed staff to research and provide an update next week. Council Member Rodriguez 
requested staff examine the possibility of taking the ministerial action of placing the measure on the November ballot at 
the next regular meeting if possible. The City Attorney is looking into the legal timing of placing the measure on early and 
will report back.   
 
ADJOURNMENT 
The Meeting adjourned at 7:00 pm.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                                                                                                                 
Joe Goethals, Mayor                                                   Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
10 of 574

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-2993
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
May 04, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Disposition of the Property Jointly Owned by the City Attorney and the City of San Mateo
RECOMMENDATION:
Direct the City Attorney to proceed with the sale of the property jointly owned by the City Attorney and the City of San 
Mateo to a third party, with the proceeds being split between the City Attorney and the City of San Mateo based on the 
original agreement, as modified as requested by the City Attorney.
BACKGROUND:
When current City Attorney Shawn Mason (Mason) was hired in 2003, the City Council agreed to an equity sharing 
agreement. Under the agreement, which is included as Attachment 1, Mason funded 47.4% of the purchase price of a 
home in San Mateo, and the City agreed to fund the remaining 52.6%. The agreement provides for a number of ways by 
which it can be terminated. One of these is the failure of Mason to occupy the property as his principal place of residence 
for a period of 90 consecutive days. Mason has moved out of the home as of April 8, 2020, and as such, under this term of 
the agreement, the agreement shall be terminated on July 7. The agreement also provides for Mason to have the option to 
purchase the property within 120 days of the date of termination. Should Mason opt to waive his right to purchase the 
property, the City then has the option to purchase the property. Should the City opt to purchase the property, it would 
need to purchase Mason's 47.4% interest in the property. Mason has informed the City Manager in a letter (Attachment 2) 
that he is not interested in purchasing the property. 
Based on the agreement, because Mason has waived his purchase option, the City has 30 days from the date of the letter 
(April 30, 2020) to determine if it wants to purchase Mason's interest in the property and retain the property for its 
purposes or whether it wants to sell the property and split the proceeds with Mason based on the original funding split. 
Because the property is an asset that is accounted for in the City's financial records (Property and Liability Insurance Fund), 
it is appraised annually. The most recent appraisal from June 2019 established the fair market value at $1.78 million. 
The agreement describes the relative initial capital contributions made by Mason and the City. The equity share of each 
party is calculated based upon the initial capital contribution made by the parties toward the purchase price of the home 
($865,000). The agreement provides that the parties acknowledge that the property was being purchased with some 
deficiencies and that Mason would pay $10,000 toward correcting the deficiency. This $10,000 was then applied to the 
Mason’s initial contribution to calculate his equity share of 47.4%.
The deficiency in the home was based upon an inspection performed at the time the home was purchased of a fireplace 
chimney that needed repair. Mason chose not to use the fireplace over the last 17 years, and it was not repaired. (The 
chimney was recently inspected in preparation for sale and the inspector noted that repairs could be accomplished for less 
than $900.)  As a result, Mason requests that the Council approve recalculation of the equity share to remove the $10,000 
11 of 574

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
capital contribution that was not made. This will result in an increase in the City’s equity share from 52.6% to 53.22% and a 
corresponding decrease in the Mason’s share from 47.4% to 46.78%. 
Because the City does not own and maintain other residential properties, it is recommended that the City Council waive its 
option to purchase the property and instead agree to sell the property and split the sale proceeds between Mason 
(46.78%) and the City (53.22%). If the City Council agrees to sell the property, Mason requests the following from Council: 
1)
Approve the sale of the home by a realtor and approve the retention of Mason's realtor, Sam Hesslegren of KW 
Peninsula Estates, for this purpose; 
2)
Agree upon $1.8 million as the fair market value for the property. Establishing this amount will hopefully avoid 
having to seek re-appraisal of the property and Council approval of a different fair market value should market 
conditions change.
3)
Agree to modify the equity shares of the parties by increasing the City’s share to 53.22% and reducing Mason’s 
share to 46.78%. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Should Council opt to sell the property and assuming it sells at fair market value, the City’s gross share of the sale proceeds 
would be approximately $957,960. These funds would remain in the Property and Liability Insurance Fund and could be 
used to reduce annual General Fund contributions to this Fund to cover the cost of claims and insurance. Should Council 
opt to retain the property as an asset of the City, it would need to purchase Mason’s 46.78% interest in the property, 
which would be $842,040.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Equity Sharing Agreement 
Att 2 - Letter from Mason to Corbett
STAFF CONTACT
Drew Corbett, City Manager 
dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7002
12 of 574

--- page 13 ---
EQUITY SHARING AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is entered into as of the date set forth below by and between the
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a Municipal corporation ("City") and SHAWN MASON, a
married man ("Mason").

A. Recitals

1. Existing Relationship Between the Parties

a) City employs Mason as its City Attorney.

b) City and Mason have met and discussed compensation and realize
that due to extremely high costs of housing in San Mateo County, City must assist
Mason in obtaining suitable housing.

C) This Equity Sharing Agreement addresses only one segment of
Mason's terms and conditions of employment. It is understood that City and Mason
may agree to such other terms as are consistent with the Municipal Code and California
law.

d) Further, it is expressly agreed that nothing contained herein shall
be construed to provide Mason a contract of employment as City Attorney. City,
through its City Council, continues to maintain its sole authority to retain or dismiss its
City Attorney from employment. The exercise of such authority by City shall not
establish in Mason a cause of action due to a loss of the housing assistance provided
for herein. Nothing herein is intended to create any obligation to provide housing
assistance for any person or persons except Mason himself.

2. Purpose

a) The purpose of this Agreement is to set forth the terms by which
City and Mason agree to hold title to the Property, the terms regarding Mason's housing
assistance, and the terms governing the rights and obligations of the parties relating to
the ownership, management, and disposition of the following real property: 2605
Ensenada Way, San Mateo, California ("the Property").

b) The parties intend to hold this Property for investment purposes
and for use as a personal residence by Mason, his spouse and family, and wish to have
an agreement by which their respective rights, obligations, and responsibilities are
governed.

3. Commencement and Term

a) This Agreement shall commence on its execution by the parties and

&nbsp;
13 of&nbsp;574


--- page 14 ---
close of escrow for purchase of the Property, whichever shall last occur, and shall
terminate upon whichever of the following events shall first occur:

i) Termination of the employment relationship between the City
and Mason by either party.

ii) The death of Mason.

iii) | The failure by Mason to occupy said Property as his principal
place of residence for a period of ninety (90) consecutive days, without the prior written
consent of City.

b) Upon the occurrence of any of the foregoing events, the time
periods set forth in paragraph E 2 shall commence.

B. Contributions

1. Initial Capital Contributions

a) The initial contributions shall consist of the following:

Original
Name Contribution Share of Profits and Losses
City
CITY OF SAN MATEO $455,000 cash 52.6%
Mason
SHAWN MASON _ $50,000 cash 47.4%

$350,000 loan
$10,000 repairs

b) Mason's initial capital contribution consists of cash in the sum of
$50,000 and a loan from First Horizon Home Loans in the original sum of $350,000.
Said loan is to be secured by a first Deed of Trust on the Property. Mason agrees to
make all payments to First Horizon when and as they become due under the terms of .
said loan. Mason further agrees that the failure to make any such payment when due
shall be a breach of his obligations under this Agreement.

C) The parties acknowledge that the Property is being acquired with

some deficiencies. Mason will spend Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000) to repair or cure
said deficiencies.

2. Additional Capital Contributions

&nbsp;

14 of&nbsp;574


--- page 15 ---
a) No other capital contributions shall be required from City.

b) Mason agrees to maintain a policy of homeowners’ insurance
including liability with limits of not less than FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS
($500,000), fire and extended coverage for the full replacement cost of the
improvements. The policy shall included a lender's loss payable endorsement in favor
of the City, secondary to the endorsement in favor of First Horizon Home loans. That
portion of the premium attributable to the liability coverage shall be paid solely by
Mason; that portion of the premium attributable to the improvements shall be paid by the
parties in the same proportions as they share in profits and losses.

| C) Mason further agrees to pay all property taxes prior to delinquency.

d) Mason further agrees to pay all costs for preserving, maintaining,
and repairing the Property; provided, that if the cost of any single repair, replacement, or
maintenance item (or group of related items) exceeds Five Thousand Dollars, ($5,000)
then the cost of that repair, replacement, or maintenance item shall be paid by the
parties as follows:

i) - $5,000 by Mason.

ii) The balance remaining shall be paid by_the parties in the
Same proportions they share in profits and losses.

iii) The amount of $5,000 payable by Mason shall be subject to
increase annually by changes in the Consumer Price Index, All Items, San
Francisco-Oakland Bay Area.

e) In the event additional contributions are required by reason of
additions or improvements to the existing residence which Mason wishes to make,
which are not agreed to by City, then the additional contribution shall be made by
Mason and no. additional contributions shall be required of City. Unless the parties
otherwise agree in writing at the time of said addition or improvement, Mason shall not
be entitled to any reimbursement or compensation at the time of sale. In no case shall
Mason commence any such improvement without prior written notice to the City's
designated officer under the provisions of paragraph F 11.

3. Remedies for Failure to Make Payments

a) In the event any party shall fail to make any payment when due, the
remaining party may, at its option, make said payments in order to prevent repossession
or other detriment to the Property. In that event, the party who makes such contribution
shall be entitled to whatever tax deductions are attributable to said payments.

b) In the event any party shall make payments under the terms of this
paragraph which should have been made by any other party, said payments shall be

&nbsp;
15 of&nbsp;574


--- page 16 ---
treated as a loan to the defaulting party and shall earn interest at the interest rate then
in effect on the loan described in paragraph B 1b), above, and said loan shall be
payable on demand after thirty (30) days.

C) If said sum or sums are not repaid upon demand, then the
non-defaulting party shall have the option to purchase the interest of the defaulting party
as that interest is valued under the provisions of paragraph E-4 below, or to require that
the Property be placed for sale as provided for in paragraph E-6 below.

4, Use and Occupancy of the Property

a) Mason shall be entitled to exclusive possession and control of the
Property so long as payments due hereunder are current, and he is in compliance with
the remaining provisions of this Agreement. His right to exclusive possession and
control shall terminate upon any event causing termination of this Agreement as
provided for herein.

. b) Mason shall not rent his portion of the Property without the consent
of City. A primary motivation for the City's willingness to enter into this Agreement is the
employment relationship between City and Mason. By reason of the foregoing, the City
shall be under no obligation to grant such consent, even though the withholding of the
consent may otherwise seem unreasonable. No such consent shall in any way excuse
Mason from any of the obligations under this Agreement.

C. Management
1. Control of Property

Mason shall have control of the Property and shall assume direction of its
maintenance and operation.

2. Acts Requiring Unanimous Consent

Except as otherwise provided herein, the following shall be done only with
the consent of both parties:

a) Transferring, hypothecating, compromising, or releasing any claim
except upon payment in full.

b) Encumbering or otherwise hypothecating the Property or entering
into any contract for such purpose.

Cc) Knowingly suffering or causing anything to be done whereby the
Property may be seized or attached or taken in execution, or its ownership or
possession otherwise endangered.

&nbsp;
16 of&nbsp;574


--- page 17 ---
d) Renting the Property to any person not a party to this Agreement.

D. Allocation of Expenses and Division of Profits and Losses
1. Allocation of Expenses for Tax Purposes

The parties agree that Mason shall claim the deductions for property taxes
and interest for state and federal income tax purposes to the extent paid by him.

2. Division of Profits and Losses Upon Sale of the Joint Ownership Property

Upon sale of the Property which is the subject of this Agreement, the cash
proceeds shall be paid according to the following priority. Nothing contained herein shall
impair the right of First Horizon Home Loans, its successors or assigns, to enforce their
rights under the first Deed of Trust referred to herein.

a) Payment of all expenses chargeable. to the joint owners in
connection with such sale.

b) Payment of the loan from First Horizon Home Loans described in
paragraph B 1 b).

C) Payment to the parties for any amounts owed them under
paragraphs B-1b and B-3 above.

d) Payment to the parties for their cash initial capital contributions as
set forth in paragraph B-1a above: provided, however that if the amount available for
distribution under this paragraph is insufficient to fully reimburse both parties for said
contributions, then the amount available shall be distributed in proportion to the parties'
initial contributions.

e) The. balance remaining, if any, shall be paid to the parties in
proportion to their interest in profits and losses then in effect.

3. Division of Profits and Losses Upon Other Disposition of the Joint
Ownership Property

In the event either party exercises an option to purchase the interest of the
other party under any of the provisions of this Agreement, then the amount due from the
party exercising its option to the other party shall be calculated as follows:

a) The Property shall be valued at such price as the parties then
agree; and in the event they are unable to agree, then at a price calculated in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph E-4 below.

b) The Property shall be deemed to be sold for the price so
determined, and the implied proceeds from such a sale shall be allocated as set forth in

&nbsp;
17 of&nbsp;574


--- page 18 ---
subparagraphs b through f of paragraph D-2 above. There shall be no allocation for any
implied expenses of sale.

Cc) An escrow shall be opened with any title or escrow company of the
purchasing party's choice. The selling party shall not be obligated to pay for a termite
report or inspection certificate, geological report, or other certification or inspection in
connection with said sale. The parties shall pay the closing costs in accordance with
local custom.

E. Changes in Ownership

1. Restrictions on Transfer

Except as provided below, a party's interest in the Property shall not be
transferred, in whole or in part, without the written consent of the remaining parties, and
any purported transfer of all or any part of an owner's interest without such consent shall
be void and of no effect against the other parties, any creditor of the Property, or any
claimant against the joint owners.

2. Option to Buy Upon Termination

a) If Mason dies, or his employment is terminated by vote of the City
Council,, then Mason (or in the event of his death, his heirs) shall have one (1) year
from the date of death or termination within which to exercise an option to purchase the
Property. Said option shall be at such price and upon such terms as the parties then
agree; and in the event they are unable to agree, then at a price calculated in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph E-4 below, and payable as provided for in
paragraph E-5. In the event Mason (or his heirs) fail to exercise said option and
consummate said purchase within one (1) year, or in the event they waive their rights
under said option at any time following the date of death or termination, then the City
shall have thirty (30) days from the receipt of notice of said waiver, or from the
expiration of said one (1) year, whichever shall first occur, in which to purchase the
Property upon the same terms and conditions. In the event neither party exercises its
option, or if both parties waive their rights under said option, then the Agreement shall
be terminated and the Property shall be disposed of as provided in paragraph E-6
below.

b) If Mason's employment is terminated other than by vote of the City
Council, or if he fails to occupy said residence for a period of ninety (90) consecutive
days, then Mason shall have one hundred twenty (120) days from the date of
termination within which to exercise an option to purchase the Property. Said option
shall be at such price and upon such terms as the parties then agree; and in the event
they are unable to agree, then at a price calculated in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph E-4 below, and payable as provided for in paragraph E-5. In the event
Mason fails to exercise said option and consummate said purchase within ninety (90)
days, or in the event he waives his rights under said option at any time following the

&nbsp;
18 of&nbsp;574


--- page 19 ---
date of termination, then the City shall have thirty (30) days from the receipt of notice of
said waiver, or from the expiration of said ninety (90) days, whichever shall first occur, in
which to purchase the Property upon the same terms and conditions. In the event
neither party exercises its option, or if both parties waive their rights under said option,
then the Agreement shall be terminated and the Property shall be disposed of as
provided in paragraph E-5 below.

C) Mason (or in the event of his death, his heirs) shall remain fully
liable for all payments due under all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement from
the date this Agreement is terminated under any of its provisions, until the
consummation of the sale or other disposition of the Property as provided for in this
Agreement.

3. Option to Increase Ownership Interest

a) Mason shall have the right to increase his ownership interest in the
Property at any time or times during the period of this Agreement, but in increments of
not less than five percent (5%) of the value of the Property at the time of each such
exercise of the option.

b) If Mason desires to exercise any such option, then he shall give
notice of that fact to the City, and the Property shall be appraised in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph E-4 below; provided, however, that if the City and Mason agree
on the name of the appraiser, Mason agrees to pay all costs of the appraisal.

C) Following the appraisal, the amount due from Mason to City for the
exercise of the option shall be equal to the fair market value of the Property, multiplied
by the additional percentage that Mason elects to purchase.

4, Valuation

a) In all cases requiring the valuation of the Property, the parties shall
seek agree upon the fair market value of the Property. If the parties are unable to
agree within thirty (30) days of the event requiring valuation, the value shall be
determined by appraisal, as set forth below.

b) Within thirty (30) days after the event requiring appraisal or, in the
case of Mason's death or termination of employment by the City, within thirty (30) days
of notice by him or the personal representative of his estate of the exercise or waiver of
the option granted in paragraph E-2a above, City and “Mason, or his personal
representative, either (i) shall jointly appoint an appraiser for this purpose, or (ii) failing
this joint action, shall each separately designate an appraiser for this purpose and,
within ten (10) days after their appointment, the two designated appraisers shall jointly
designate a third appraiser. The failure of any party or the party whose interest is being
appraised or his personal representative, to appoint an appraiser within the time allowed
shall be deemed equivalent to appointing the appraiser appointed by the other party.

&nbsp;
19 of&nbsp;574


--- page 20 ---
No person shall be appointed or designated an appraiser unless he or she is a member
of the Institute of Appraisers, or has been licensed to sell real estate for at least five (5)
years, has actively engaged in said business for at least three (3) years and has
regularly maintained an office for said business in the City of San Mateo for at least
three (3) years, immediately preceding the date of appointment. 2

C) If, within thirty (30) days after the appointment of all appraisers, a
majority of appraisers concur on the value of the interest being appraised, that appraisal
shall be binding and conclusive. Ifa majority of the appraisers do not concur within that
period, the determination of the appraiser whose appraisal is neither highest nor lowest
shall be binding and conclusive. Each party, or the deceased party's representative,
shall bear the expense of the appraiser selected by that party, or by the representative;
and the expense of the third designated appraiser, if any, shall be paid in proportion to
each party's interest in the Property.

d) In arriving at a valuation figure, buildings and land shall be valued
at fair market value and the existence of a willing purchaser shall be assumed.

5, Manner of Payment

Whenever a party, having the right to do so, chooses to purchase the
other party's interest, he shall pay for that interest in such manner, and upon such terms
as the parties shall agree, and if the parties are unable to agree, then the party shall pay
in cash, within thirty (30) days after the appraised value has been determined under the
provisions of paragraph E-4.

6. Disposition on Termination

Upon the termination of this Agreement, unless the parties agree
otherwise, the Property shall be disposed of as follows:

a) At the election of the City, the Property shall either be listed with
one or more duly licensed real estate brokers as the parties may then select and placed
on the multiple listing service; or, the Property shall be advertised by the City for sale in
accordance with such procedures as the City then determines, or are required by law.
Said procedures may include a provision for sale by means of public auction, so long as
the procedures selected by the City do not unreasonably delay the consummation of the
sale of the Property and the payment to Mason of sums due to him under this
Agreement.

b) Unless the parties otherwise agree, the Property shall be listed for
not less than its value as determined under paragraph E-4. If no offer to purchase the
Property at said price which is acceptable to the parties is received within thirty (30)
days after the Property is first offered for sale, then any offer which is received by the
parties with a purchase price equal to at least ninety-five percent (95%) of such value,
which provides for a down payment of at least twenty percent (20%), and whose

&nbsp;
20 of&nbsp;574


--- page 21 ---
remaining terms are commercially reasonable under the facts and circumstances then
existing in Mateo County, shall be accepted by all of the parties, and the parties shall
thereafter convey the Property under the terms and conditions of the offer so accepted.
Nothing contained herein shall obligate the City to accept an offer which calls for an
assumption of the City's interest as provided herein, or which would require the City to
carry any form of new loan to the buyer.

. C) Upon close of escrow, the proceeds of sale shall be divided in
accordance with the terms of paragraph D-2 of this Agreement.

P. Miscellaneous Provisions
1. Indemnification. Each party shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless

the other parties from any and all expense and liability resulting from or arising out of
any negligence or misconduct on his part to the extent that the amount exceeds the
applicable insurance carried by the parties. ,

2. Amendments. This Agreement may be amended at any time and
from time to time, but any amendment must be in writing and signed by each person
who is then a party.

3. Notices. Any written notice to any of the parties required or permitted
under this Agreement shall be deemed to have been duly given on the date of service if
served personally on the party to whom notice is to be given, or on the second day after
mailing if mailed to the party to whom notice is to be given, first class, certified, return
receipt requested, postage prepaid, and addressed to the addressee at the address
Stated opposite his name below, or at the most recent address, specified by written
notice, given to the sender by the addressee under this provision.

4. Counterparts. The. parties may execute this Agreement in two or
more counterparts, which shall, in the aggregate, be signed by all the parties; each
counterpart shall be deemed an original instrument as against any party who has signed
it.

5; Agreement Binding on Successors. This Agreement shall be binding

on and inure to the benefit of the respective successors, assigns, and personal
representatives of the parties, except to the extent of any contrary provisions in this
Agreement.

6. Unenforceability. If any term, provision, covenant, or condition of this
Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void, or
unenforceable, the rest of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall in
no way be affected, impaired or invalidated,

7. Pronouns. As used in this Agreement, the masculine, feminine, or
neuter gender, and the singular or plural numbers shall each be deemed to include the

&nbsp;
21 of&nbsp;574


--- page 22 ---
others whenever the context so indicates,

8. ARBITRATION OF DISPUTES: Any dispute or claim in law or equity
arising out of this contract or any resulting transaction shall be decided by neutral
binding arbitration in accordance with part 3, Title 9 of the California Code of Civil
Procedure, and not by court action except as provided by California law for judicial
review of arbitration proceedings. Judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator
may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. The parties to the arbitration
shall have the right to discovery in accordance with the Code of Civil Procedure
§1283.05. The arbitrator shall be a retired Superior court judge or a licensed California
attorney. The losing party shall pay the arbitrator's fees. In the event of a disagreement
as to the selection of an arbitrator, the presiding judge of the superior court having
jurisdiction to enforce the arbitration award shall select the arbitrator. The following
matters are excluded from arbitration hereunder: (a) a judicial or non-judicial
foreclosure or other action or proceeding to enforce a deed of trust, mortgage, or real
property sales contract as defined in Civil Code §2985, (b) an unlawful detainer action,
(c) the filing or enforcement of a mechanic's lien, (d) any matter which is within the
jurisdiction of a probate or small claims court, or (e) an action for bodily injury or
wrongful death, or for latent or patent defect to which Code of Civil Procedure §337.1 or
§337.15 applies. The filing of a judicial action to enable the recording of a notice of

\ pending action, for order of attachment, receivership, injunction, or other provisional
ees shall not constitute a waiver of the right to arbitrate under this provision.

NOTICE:

BY INITIALING IN THE SPACE BELOW YoU ARE AGREEING TO HAVE ANY
DISPUTE ARISING OUT OF THE MATTERS INCLUDED IN THE "ARBITRATION OF
DISPUTES" PROVISION DECIDED BY NEUTRAL ARBITRATION AS PROVIDED BY
CALIFORNIA LAW AND YOU ARE GIVING UP ANY RIGHTS YOU MIGHT POSSESS
TO HAVE THE DISPUTE LITIGATED IN A COURT OR JURY TRIAL. BY INITIALING

DISCOVERY AND APPEAL, UNLESS THOSE RIGHTS ARE SPECIFICALLY
INCLUDED IN THE "ARBITRATION OF DISPUTES" PROVISION. IF YOU REFUSE
TO SUBMIT TO ARBITRATION AFTER AGREEING TO THIS PROVISION, YOU MAY
BE COMPELLED TO ARBITRATE UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF THE CALIFORNIA
CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE. YOUR AGREEMENT TO THIS ARBITRATION
PROVISION IS VOLUNTARY.

WE HAVE READ AND UNDERSTAND THE FOREGOING AND AGREE TO SUBMIT

DISPUTES ARISING OUT OF THE MATTERS INCLUDED IN THE "ARBITRATION OF
DISPUTES" PROVISION TO NEUTRAL ARBITRATION.

CITY AGREES (Initials):
MASON AGREES (Initials): -—-=*-~ Ja |

CITY DOES NOT AGREE (Initials):

&nbsp;
22 of&nbsp;574


--- page 23 ---
MASON DOES NOT AGREE (Initials):

9. Attorneys' Fees. _In the event of any dispute under this Agreement, or
the default by any party of that party's obligations hereunder, then the prevailing party
shall be entitled to recover, in addition to all other sums which may be due under the
terms of this Agreement, all costs of suit, including reasonable attorneys' fees.

10. Responsible Officer for City.

a) All decisions regarding the Property, including approvals required under this
agreement shall be made by the City Manager or his/her designee, except as follows.

b) All decisions regarding foreclosure of the City's interest in the Property, purchase by
the City of Mason's interest, and a change in Mason's ownership interest by more than
ten percent (10%) at any one time, or by more than twenty-five percent (25%) since
inception of this agreement, shall be made by the City Council, acting through the
Mayor.

11. Right of Inspection. The City shall have the right to inspect the Property at
reasonable times and upon reasonable notice, not less often than once a each year at
the election of the City's administrative officer. The City shall also have the right to
inspect the Property upon reasonable notice in connection with the making of any
repairs or improvements to the Property under the provisions of paragraph B of this
Agreement.

12. Performance Deed of Trust. The parties agree that Mason's obligations under this

Agreement shall be secured by a Performance Deed of Trust on the Property that is the
subject of this Agreement. Mason and his spouse agree to sign and acknowledge such
a Deed of Trust before a Notary Public, and the City may record said Deed of Trust at
its election.

13. Entire Agreement. _ This instrument contains the entire agreement of the parties
relating to the Property. Any oral representations or modifications concerning this
instrument shall be of no force or effect unless contained in a subsequent written
modification signed by the party to be charged.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement at San
Mateo, California on the dates set forth below.

Dated: March 24, 2003

CITY OF SAN MATEO,

a CM, corporation
By EE i $

CLAIRE MACK, MAYOR

&nbsp;
23 of&nbsp;574


--- page 24 ---
Dated: Moreh AY Aovs

N MASON

CONSENT OF SPOUSE

1. | am the spouse of SHAWN MASON.

2. | have read and hereby approve the provisions of the foregoing Equity Sharing
Agreement, including but not limited to those relating to his percentage interest in the
property, and the purchase, sale, or other disposition of his interest,

3. | agree to be bound by and accept those provisions of the Agreement in lieu of all
other interests | may have in the Property, whether the interest may be community
property or otherwise.

4. | further agree that my rights to occupy the Property are governed by said
Agreement, and are subject to termination as provided therein.

Dated: 2 of

JANE K. me : NY

&nbsp;
24 of&nbsp;574


--- page 25 ---
Recording Requested By
Chicago Title Company
Escrow No.127874

And When Recorded Return
To:

Finance Director

City of San Mateo

330 West 20th Avenue

San Mateo, CA 94403-1388

APN: 039-127-180

SHORT FORM DEED OF TRUST AND ASSIGNMENT OF RENTS (INDIVIDUAL)

This Deed of Trust, made this ge day of March, 2003, between SHAWN MASON and
JANE K. MASON, husband and wife, herein referred to collectively as Trustor, whose
address is 2605 Ensenada Way, San Mateo, CA 94403, CHICAGO TITLE COMPANY, a
California corporation, herein called Trustee, and THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal
corporation, herein called Beneficiary,
Witnesseth: That Trustor GRANTS, TRANSFERS AND ASSIGNS to TRUSTEE, IN
TRUST, WITH POWER OF SALE, that property in the City of San Mateo, County of San
Mateo, California, described as follows:
LOT 10, BLOCK 1, as designated on that certain map entitled "Subdivision No. 1 of
Meadow Heights, San Mateo County, California,” which map was filed in the office of

the Recorder of the County of San Mateo, State-of California on April 19, 1941, in
Book 23 of Maps at page 50.

TOGETHER WITH the rents, issues and profits thereof, SUBJECT, HOWEVER, to the
right, power and authority given to and conferred upon Beneficiary to collect and apply such
rents, issues and profits.

For the Purpose of Securing: 1. Performance by Trustor of each of Trustor's obligations
contained in an Equity Sharing Agreement of even date herewith between Trustor and
Beneficiary, and any extension or renewal thereof. 2. Payment of such further sums and
interest thereon as the then record owner of said property hereafter may borrow from
Beneficiary, or his successor or assigns, when evidenced by another note or notes reciting

it is so secured.

&nbsp;
25 of&nbsp;574


--- page 26 ---
To Protect the Security of This Deed of Trust, Trustor Agrees: Trustor expressly makes
each and all of the agreements, and adopts and agrees to perform and be bound by each
and all of the terms and provisions set forth in subdivision B of the fictitious deed of trust
recorded in San Mateo County, in Book 4778 and at Page 175 of Official Records, shall
inure to and bind the parties hereto, with respect to the property above described. Said
agreements, terms and provisions contained in said fictitious deed of trust hereby are
adopted and incorporated herein and made a part hereof as fully as though set forth herein
at length; that he will observe and perform said provisions; and that the references to
property, obligations, and parties in said provisions shall be construed to refer to the
property, obligations, and parties set forth in this Deed of Trust.

If the Trustor shall sell, convey, or alienate said property, or any part thereof, or any
interest therein, or shall be divested of his title or any interest therein in any manner or way,
whether voluntarily or involuntarily, without the written consent of the Beneficiary being first
had and obtained, Beneficiary shall have the right, at its option, except as prohibited by law,
to declare any indebtedness or obligations secured hereby, irrespective of the maturity date
specified in any note evidencing the same, immediately due and payable.

The undersigned Trustor requests that a copy of any Notice of Default and of any
Notice of Sale hereunder be mailed to her at her address hereinbefore set forth.

Sig stor

77

SHAWN MASON

aa k Man,

JANE K. MASON

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )
SS.
COUNTY OF SANMATEO __+*)

on _(Vrvenay 2OO>»before me, Sand ra [4 Lolli 17927 a Notary Public
in and for said County and State, personally appeared SHAWN MASON and JANE K.
MASON, persenally-knewn-te-me (or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence) to
be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and
acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized

&nbsp;
26 of&nbsp;574


--- page 27 ---
capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the
entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.

WITNESS my hand and official seal

f Va SIL Pp 7 - ~
iM sali Z4 A,

. / Notary Public, State of California

SANDRA M. BELLUOMINI >
Commission # 1351193

San Mateo County

&nbsp;
27 of&nbsp;574


--- page 28 ---
April 30, 2020

Drew Corbett

City Manager

City of San Mateo

330 West 20" Avenue

San Mateo, California 94403

Dear Drew:

When | was hired by the city in 2003, the city council approved an Equity Sharing Agreement by which
the city assisted with the purchase of a home for myself and my family. Under this agreement (a copy of
which is attached), | agreed to fund 47.4% of the cost of the home and the city agreed to fund the
balance. My family and | moved in to the home and have lived there for the last 17 years.

My wife and | have decided to move and have taken steps to facilitate the sale of the home. We have
retained a licensed real estate broker, listed the home on the Multiple Listing Service, and moved to an
apartment in San Mateo. Now that we have decided to sell our home we need to take certain steps and
obtain approval of the process for selling the home and dividing the equity between ourselves and the
city.

Terms of Agreement

The agreement provides for a number of ways by which it can be terminated. One of these is “the failure
by [me] to occupy said property as [my] principal place of residence for a period of ninety (90)
consecutive days.” My wife and | moved to our apartment on April 8. By this term the agreement shall
be terminated on July 7.

The agreement provides that if | “fail to occupy said residence for a period of ninety (90) consecutive
days, then [I] shall have one hundred and twenty (120) days from the date of termination within which
to exercise an option to purchase the Property.”

The agreement goes on to state that if | waive my right to purchase the property, “then the City shall
have thirty (30) days from the receipt of notice of said waiver, or from the expiration of said ninety (90)
days, whichever shall first occur, in which to purchase the Property.”

The agreement also contains provisions governing the process for selling the property if neither | nor the
city is interested in purchasing it. If the city decides to purchase it would buy my interest in the property.
If the city decides not to purchase the property, the city must then select the method for selling the
property. Under the agreement the property shall either be listed with one or more duly licensed real
estate brokers as the parties may then select and placed on the multiple listing service; or, the property
shall be advertised for sale in accordance with such procedures as the City then determines.

If the parties choose to sell the property, the property will be listed for not less than its fair market value
upon which the parties shall seek to agree. If the parties are unable to agree on fair market value, the
agreement requires appraisal of the property.

&nbsp;
28 of&nbsp;574


--- page 29 ---
Drew Corbett
April 30, 2020 Page 2

Requested Actions

My wife and | will not be purchasing the city’s interest in the property. This letter shall serve as my
notice that we will waive the purchase option. Accordingly, the City now has 30 days to decide whether
it desires to purchase my interest in property. | would request that you seek and provide your
recommendation to the city council on this decision.

If you recommend and the city council agrees to waive its option to purchase my home, the city will
have to decide how to sell the property and determine its fair market value. | would request that the
council:

[1] Approve the sale of the home by realtor and approve the retention of our realtor, Sam
Hesslegren of KW Peninsula Estates’, for this purpose;

[2] agree upon $1.8 million as the fair market value for the property.

The city’s interest in the property is an asset that is accounted for in the city’s financial records. For the
last several years, the city has been obtaining an annual appraisal of the property for reporting
purposes. The most recent appraisal from June 2019 established the fair market value at $1.78 million. |
would suggest that $1.8 million be established as fair market value. While we are hopeful the property
will sell more for more than this, establishing this amount will hopefully avoid having to seek
reevaluation and council approval of a different amount should market conditions change.

The agreement describes the relative initial capital contributions made by the city attorney and the city.
The equity share of each party is calculated based upon the initial capital contribution made by the
parties toward the purchase price of the home ($855,000). The agreement provides that the parties
acknowledge that the property was being purchased with some deficiencies and that the city attorney
would pay $10,000 toward correcting the deficiency. This $10,000 was then added to the purchase price
to calculate each party’s equity share. My equity share was calculated by adding my down payment
($50,000) to our mortgage ($350,000) plus the $10,000 to fix the deficiency and dividing the sum by the
purchase price plus the $10,000 ($855,000 + $10,000 = $865,000.) Thus, my share was 410,000 divided
by 865,000 which equals 47.4%. The city’s share was 52.6%.

The deficiency in the home was based upon an inspection performed at the time the home was
purchased of a fireplace chimney that needed repair. We chose not to use the fireplace over the last 17
years, and it was not repaired. (The chimney was recently inspected in preparation for sale and the
inspector noted that repairs could be accomplished for less than $900.) Asa result, | would also request
that the council approve recalculation of the equity share to remove the $10,000 capital contribution
that was not made. In doing so, my equity share will be adjusted to the sum of my down payment and
mortgage divided by the purchase price (50,000 + 350,000 / 855,000= 46.78%.) This will result in an
increase in the City’s equity share from 52.6% to 53.22% and a corresponding decrease in the my share
from 47.4% to 46.78%.

' Typical realtor commissions range between 5%-6% of the sales price. Mr. Hesselgren has agreed to a 5%
commission.

&nbsp;
29 of&nbsp;574


--- page 30 ---
Drew Corbett
April 30, 2020

Page 3

assistance with this matter. Please let me know if you have any questions.

PLEASE NOTE THAT THIS LETTER IS BEING PRESENTED IN MY PERSONAL CAPACITY AND NOT IN MY
CAPACITY AS CITY ATTORNEY. THIS LETTER REPRESENTS MY UNDERSTANDING OF THE RIGHTS AND
OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES FROM MY PERSPECTIVE AS A PARTY TO THE AGREEMENT. IF LEGAL
ADVICE IS REQUIRED IN CONNECTION WITH THIS MATTER YOU SHOULD SEEK SUCH ADVICE FROM

OUTSIDE COUNSEL.

&nbsp;
30 of&nbsp;574


--- page 31 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-2944
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
May 04, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Seamless Bay Area - Integrated Public Transit Support
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to support Seamless Bay Area’s “Seamless Transit Principles” which commits to working collaboratively 
with other agencies to develop a highly integrated regional transportation system.
BACKGROUND:
At the March 16th City Council meeting, the City Council requested that a resolution of support for the Seamless Bay 
Area’s “Seamless Transit Principles” be brought forward for consideration. 
Housing affordability and increasing traffic congestion are key challenges in San Mateo and in the San Francisco Bay Area 
more broadly. These issues are exacerbated by an inconvenient and disjointed public transportation network. Despite 
significant investment in new transportation infrastructure in the Bay Area over past decades, public transit has failed to 
attract large numbers of new riders. Since 1970, transit has accounted for a mere 12% of commute trips, by contrast 
automobiles have accounted for 75% of commute trips. Additionally, using the Bay Area’s public transit system is often 
inconvenient as it requires multiple separate fares and unpredictable transfers. People with lower incomes, especially 
those who have experienced displacement, have long commutes requiring multiple transit services and are among the 
most adversely effected. Regions that have successfully integrated and simplified transit fares experience broad social 
benefits, including a shift in travel from private cars to public transit, expanded mobility options, and cost savings for 
riders.
Seamless Bay Area is a non-profit 501(c)3 group whose mission is to transform the Bay Area’s fragmented and 
inconvenient public transit into a world-class, unified, equitable, and widely-used system by building a diverse movement 
for change and promoting policy reforms. Seamless Bay Area has developed “Seamless Transit Principles”:
1.
Run all Bay Area transit as one easy-to use system
2.
Put riders first
3.
Make public transit equitable and accessible to all
4.
Align transit prices to be simple, fair, and affordable
5.
Connect effortlessly with other sustainable transportation
6.
Plan communities and transportation together
7.
Prioritize reforms to create a seamless network
Seamless Bay Area invites cities, counties, and transportation agencies to adopt a resolution in support of the “Seamless 
Transit Principles” and commit to working across jurisdictional boundaries to achieve this vision. The City of San Mateo is a 
collaborative and willing partner and has exemplified this work recently in partnering with Caltrain on the 25th Avenue 
Grade Separation project. Furthermore, the City’s recently updated and adopted Bicycle Master Plan and 2020 Climate 
31 of 574

--- page 32 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Action Plan highlight the City’s goals to enhance mobility options for our community and to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions from the transportation sector. 
The City’s actions and priorities align with Seamless Bay Area’s vision. The proposed resolution furthers this by committing 
to working collaboratively with other agencies to develop a highly integrated regional transportation system in support of 
Seamless Bay Area’s “The Seamless Transit Principles.”
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no fiscal impact for taking this action.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This adoption of a resolution is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment because the City is committing to working 
collaboratively to further Seamless Bay Area’s Seamless Transit Principles and not to a specific project at this time. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst 
achow@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7007
32 of 574

--- page 33 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2020)
RESOLUTION SUPPORTING SEAMLESS BAY AREA’S SEAMLESS TRANSIT PRINCIPLES.
WHEREAS, the San Francisco Bay Area is challenged by several interrelated crises – decreasing housing 
affordability, increasing congestion, rising pollution, and widening inequality – which are exacerbated by an 
inadequate and poorly-performing public transportation system; and
WHEREAS, despite billions of dollars of investments in new transportation infrastructure over the past five 
decades, public transit in the Bay Area has failed to attract large numbers of new riders and has never been used 
more than 12% of the population for commute trips since 1970; by contrast automobiles have always been used for 
over 75% of commute trips; and
WHEREAS, the quality of and usage of public transit in the Bay Area has declined in recent years, with transit 
trips per capita declining by 10%, average bus speeds declining by 9%, and transit commute times increasing by 11% 
between 2001 and 2016; and
WHEREAS, the California Air Resources Board reported in 2018 that no California regions, including the Bay 
Area, are on track to meet their greenhouse gas reduction targets, with increasing Vehicle Miles Travelled (VMT) and 
declines in transit ridership cited as primary factors; and
WHEREAS, using public transit in the Bay Area is inconvenient and costly for many types of trips, requiring 
riders to, use multiple transit systems operated independently with little coordination, pay multiple separate fares, 
experience unpredictable transfers, and navigate different wayfinding systems and brand identities; and
WHEREAS, low income people, especially those who have experienced displacement and have long 
commutes requiring multiple transit services, are among the most adversely affected by the Bay Area’s poorly 
integrated public transportation system and experience a significant financial burden from needing to pay multiple 
separate transit fares or being forced into costly vehicle ownership; and
WHEREAS, regions that have successfully integrated and simplified transit fares have experienced many 
broad social benefits, including a shift in travel from private cars to public transit, an increase in overall 
public transit usage, and expanded mobility options and cost savings for riders; and
WHEREAS, the adoption of this resolution is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes to the environment because the City is 
committing to working collaboratively to further Seamless Bay Area’s Seamless Transit Principles and not to a specific 
project at this time.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES that: 
1.
The City is committed to working collaboratively with State agencies, the Metropolitan Transportation 
Commission, municipalities and other public agencies to develop a highly integrated regional 
transportation system that provides convenient, seamless, and affordable transit for customers.
2.
The City of San Mateo supports the Seamless Transit Principles listed in Exhibit A and agrees that the City 
of San Mateo to be publicly listed as a supporter.
33 of 574

--- page 34 ---
Exhibit A
The Seamless Transit Principles   Viewable at: www.seamlessbayarea.org/seamless-transit-principles
1) Run all Bay Area transit as one easy-to-use system
Public transit should work as one seamless, connected, and convenient network across the San Francisco Bay 
Area and beyond. Getting around on transit should be as fast and easy as driving a car. Coordinated bus, rail, 
and ferry routes and schedules should encourage effortless transfers. Consistent and clear customer 
information, branding, and maps should make using transit simple and dignified.
2) Put riders first
Riders should feel comfortable when using transit and be treated like valued customers. Public transit 
agencies must do more to listen to riders and continuously improve service. They must prioritize riders’ needs 
above all else, and overcome all operational, political and bureaucratic barriers to provide an excellent and 
seamless customer experience. 
3) Make public transit equitable and accessible to all
People of all income levels, ages, abilities, genders, and backgrounds should have access to world-class public 
transit. People who are the most reliant on transit are best served by a universal, inclusive, regionally 
integrated, connected system that is used by all.  People with limited means to pay for transit should be 
provided with discounts.
4) Align transit prices and passes to be simple, fair, and affordable
Transit should provide good value for money. Fares across the region’s 27 public transit agencies must be 
aligned into a consistent, fair, and affordable system that encourages using transit for all types of trips and 
doesn’t punish riders for transferring. Cost-effective monthly passes should work across the Bay Area and 
should be widely available to individuals, employers, and schools.
5) Connect effortlessly with other sustainable transportation
A person’s journey does not end when they get off a bus or exit a station. Excellent pedestrian, bicycle, and 
other pollution-free transportation options should seamlessly connect public transit to communities and 
destinations, supporting door-to-door trips that don’t require a car.
6) Plan communities and transportation together
High quality public transit should be at the heart of communities across the Bay Area.  Transportation should 
be closely aligned with our region’s land use, promoting a connected network of transit-oriented, walkable 
communities that expands access to affordable housing and job opportunities, and reduces car travel and 
greenhouse gas emissions.
7) Prioritize reforms to create a seamless network
A regionally integrated, world-class transit system won’t happen on its own -- it will take leadership, 
unprecedented levels of cooperation, and changes to existing local, regional, and state policies. The cities, 
counties, public transit agencies, regional authorities, business leaders, advocacy groups and elected 
representatives of the San Francisco Bay Area and Northern California megaregion must prioritize the broad 
public interest and urgently work together collaboratively to advance critical reforms. Our future depends on 
it!
34 of 574

--- page 35 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-2910
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
May 04, 2020 
SUBJECT:
City-Owned Poles ExteNet Systems - Master License Agreement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a Master License Agreement with ExteNet Systems, LLC to allow small cell installations on City owned poles.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo owns more than 5,000 streetlights throughout the city. The City has received numerous applications 
for the installation of wireless small cell facilities on non-City owned utility poles. Providing additional installation 
locations, allowing small cell infrastructure on city streetlights, will provide for less visually obtrusive installation when 
compared to utility poles. The master license agreement allows for installation of wireless small cell facilities on City-
owned poles and would greatly reduce the need for wireless companies to unnecessarily install their own poles 
throughout the city. 
In order for ExteNet Systems, LLC (ExteNet), on behalf of Sprint, to use the City’s streetlight poles, they must enter into a 
license agreement with the City. The attached Master License Agreement has been developed and reviewed by City staff 
and ExteNet. The terms and conditions of the agreement are the same as the Verizon and AT&T agreements approved by 
City Council during 2019. The main terms are as follow:
1)
The term of the agreement is for ten years with up to fifteen one-year renewal terms. The term of any 
telecommunications permit issued for a location subject to the agreement will be the same as the agreement 
itself. 
2)
The annual rent for each pole, which is dictated by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), will be $270. 
3)
ExteNet will be required to demonstrate compliance with FCC radio frequency emissions standards upon 
installation or any future modification. 
The Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission recommended approval at its regular meeting held on March 11, 2020. 
With City Council approval of the agreement, ExteNet would be able to install small cell facilities on City-owned streetlight 
poles. ExteNet will still need to obtain Wireless Communication Facilities permits and follow all requirements of the 
ordinance, including noticing for neighborhood meetings and conditional approval by the Public Works Director, as well as 
allowing the public to appeal the Director’s decision.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Approval of this Agreement will allow the City to collect $270 annually per city-owned pole. The annual fee is set by the 
FCC. 
35 of 574

--- page 36 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The approval of a Master License Agreement is Categorically Exempt under the California Environmental Quality Act 
Section 15301 Class 1, leasing or licensing of existing public structures involving negligible expansion of use.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Matthew Trieu, Engineering Technician
mtrieu@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7382 
Tracy Scramaglia, Senior Engineer 
tscramaglia@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7316
36 of 574

--- page 37 ---
Page 1 of 33
39
107770644_2
MASTER LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR WIRELESS FACILITIES ON CITY POLES
IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY
This MASTER LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR WIRELESS FACILITIES ON CITY 
POLES IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY (“Master License”) dated _____________ (the “Effective 
Date”) is between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a California municipal corporation (the “City’) 
and ExteNet Systems (California) LLC, a California limited liability company (the “Licensee”).
BACKGROUND
A.
WHEREAS, technology developments and demand for high-speed mobile data service 
and capacity has extended beyond the capabilities of traditional macrocell wireless 
communications facilities.  To meet this demand, wireless providers have accelerated their small 
cell and distributed antenna system (“DAS”) deployments in the public right-of-way and the City 
has a clear incentive to manage these accelerated deployments in a way that preserves local 
aesthetics and public health and safety; and
B.
WHEREAS, Licensee is in the business of installing, maintaining and operating wireless 
communication facilities and typically installs, maintains and operates its wireless 
communications facilities on existing vertical infrastructure in the public right-of-way; and
C.
WHEREAS, the City owns as its personal property a number of existing Poles (defined 
below) within the public right-of-way that are potentially suitable for installing wireless 
communications facilities within the City’s jurisdiction; and
D.
WHEREAS, Licensee desires to install, maintain and operate wireless communications 
facilities on the City’s Poles in the public right-of-way and Licensee is willing to compensate the 
City for the right to use the City’s Poles for wireless communications purposes; and
E.
WHEREAS, consistent with California state law, the City intends this Master License 
and any Wireless Permit (defined below) to be applicable only to City-owned Poles; and
F.
WHEREAS, consistent with all applicable Laws, the City does not intend this Master 
License to grant the Licensee any exclusive right to use or occupy the public rights-of-way 
within the City’s territorial and/or jurisdictional boundaries, and Licensee expressly 
acknowledges that the City may enter into similar or identical agreements with other entities, 
which include without limitation Licensee’s competitors; and
G.
WHEREAS, the City desires to authorize Licensee’s access to individual City-owned 
poles based on a comprehensive and uniform Master License according to the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Master License, any applicable Wireless Permit, and pursuant to all 
the applicable permits issued by the City to protect public health and safety; and
H.
WHEREAS, on March 18, 2019, the City Council of the City of San Mateo approved the 
form and material terms for a Master License for Wireless Facilities on City Poles in the right-of-
way to be used in connection with the licensing of Poles and other City-owned property for 
wireless communications facilities, and further delegated authority to the City Manager to enter 
into such agreements.
NOW THEREFORE, for good, valuable and sufficient consideration received and 
acknowledged by the City and Licensee, the City and Licensee agree as follows:
37 of 574

--- page 38 ---
Page 2 of 33
39
107770644_2
AGREEMENT
1.
GENERAL DEFINITIONS
“Agent” means agent, employee, officer, contractor, subcontractor, and representative of a party 
in relation to this Master License and the License Area.
“Assignment” means any of the following: (a) a merger, acquisition, or other transfer of a 
controlling interest in Licensee, voluntarily or by operation of Law; (b) Licensee’s sale, 
assignment, encumbrance, pledge, or other transfer of any part of its interest in or rights with 
respect to the License Area; and (c) any action by Licensee to permit any portion of the License 
Area to be occupied by anyone other than itself, including a sublicense.
“Common Control” means two entities that are both Controlled by the same third entity.
“Control” means (a) as to a corporation, the ownership of stock having the right to exercise 
more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the controlled 
corporation, issued and outstanding; or (b) as to partnerships and other forms of business 
associations, ownership of more than 50% of the beneficial interest and voting control of such 
association.
“CPUC” means the California Public Utilities Commission established in the California 
Constitution, Article XII, Section 5, or its duly appointed successor agency.
“EMF” means electromagnetic fields or radio frequency generally between 30 kHz and 300 GHz 
in the electromagnetic spectrum range.
“Environmental Laws” means any Law relating to industrial hygiene, environmental 
conditions, or Hazardous Materials.
“Equipment” means antennas and any associated utility or equipment box, and battery backup, 
transmitters, receivers, radios, amplifiers, ancillary fiber-optic cables and wiring, and ancillary 
equipment for the transmission and reception of radio communication signals for voice and other 
data transmission, including the means and devices used to attach Equipment to, or adjacent to, a 
licensed City Pole, peripherals, and ancillary equipment and installations, including wiring, 
cabling, power feeds, and any approved signage attached to Equipment.
“FCC” means the Federal Communications Commission or its duly appointed successor agency.
“FCC Order” means the Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order (WT Docket No. 17-
79; WC Docket No. 17-84) adopted by FCC on September 26, 2018, which, inter alia, clarifies 
Sections 253 and 332(c)(7) of the Communications Act as they apply to state and local 
regulation of wireless infrastructure deployment, including identifying specific fee levels for 
small wireless facility deployments that presumably comply with the relevant standard.
“Hazardous Material” means any material that, because of its quantity, concentration, or 
physical or chemical characteristics, is at any time now or hereafter deemed by any Regulatory 
Agency to pose a present or potential hazard to human health, welfare, or safety or to the 
environment.  Hazardous Material includes any material or substance defined as a “hazardous 
substance,” or “pollutant” or “contaminant” in the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (“CERCLA”) (codified as 42 U.S.C. §§ 9601 et seq.) or 
38 of 574

--- page 39 ---
Page 3 of 33
39
107770644_2
Section 25316 of the California Health & Safety Code; and any “hazardous waste” listed 
California Health & Safety Code § 25140; and petroleum, including crude oil or any fraction 
thereof, natural gas or natural gas liquids.
“Investigate and Remediate” means the undertaking of any activities to determine the nature 
and extent of Hazardous Material that may be located in, on, under or about the License Area or 
that has been, is being, or is in danger of being Released into the environment, and to clean up, 
remove, contain, treat, stabilize, monitor or otherwise control such Hazardous Material.
“Invitee” means the client, customer, invitee, guest, tenant, subtenant, licensee, authorized 
assignee and authorized sublicensee of a party in relation to the License Area.
“Laws” means any and all laws, regulations, ordinances, resolutions, judicial decisions, rules, 
permits and approvals applicable to Licensee’s use that are in force on the date of this Master 
License or as lawfully amended including, without limitation, the California Building Code, the 
City’s Municipal Code, Design and Engineering Standards, and standard Conditions of 
Approval. If, after the date of this Master License, the rights or obligations of either Party are 
materially preempted or superseded by changes in Laws, the parties agree to amend the Master 
License to reflect the change in Laws.
“License Area” means the area and Pole identified in each Wireless Permit that Licensee may 
use for its Permitted Use. 
“Licensee’s On-Call Representative” mean the person(s) assigned by Licensee to be on-call 
and available to the City regarding the operation of Licensee’s Equipment.  Such person(s) shall 
be qualified and experienced in the operation of Equipment and shall be authorized to act on 
behalf of Licensee in any emergency and in day-to-day operations of the Equipment.
“Permitted Use” means Licensee’s installation, operation and maintenance of Equipment for the 
transmission and reception of wireless, cellular telephone and data and related communications 
in License Areas.
“Pole” or “City Pole” means a street light pole, traffic signal pole, utility pole or other support 
structure located in the public right-of-way within the City and owned by the City.
 “Property” means any interest in real or personal property, including land, air and water areas, 
leasehold interests, possessory interests, easements, franchises and other appurtenances, public 
rights-of-way, physical works of improvements such as buildings, structures, infrastructure, 
utility and other facilities, and alterations, installations, fixtures, furnishings and additions to 
existing real property, personal property and improvements.
“Regulatory Agency” means the local, regional, state or federal body with jurisdiction and 
responsibility for issuing Regulatory Approvals in accordance with applicable Laws.
“Regulatory Approvals” means licenses, permits and other approvals necessary for Licensee to 
install, operate and maintain Equipment on the License Area.
“Release” when used with respect to Hazardous Material includes any actual or imminent 
spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, 
39 of 574

--- page 40 ---
Page 4 of 33
39
107770644_2
leaching, dumping or disposing on, under or about the License Area, other City Property or the 
environment.
“Wireless Telecommunications Ordinance” means the City’s ordinance regulating wireless 
telecommunications facilities, which took effect on August 16, 2018, and is codified in Chapter 
17.10 of the City of San Mateo Municipal Code.
“Wireless Permit” means a permit obtained pursuant to the City’s Wireless 
Telecommunications Ordinance.
“Wireless Permit Application” means the application form used by the City that will identify 
the City Pole(s) for installation of Equipment and describe the proposed Equipment, which shall 
be accompanied by other relevant information and documents as required by the City’s Wireless 
Telecommunications Ordinance.
2.
SCOPE OF LICENSE
2.1.
License Area
2.1.1.
Wireless Permit Issuance and Effect
Subject to the terms and conditions in this Master License, the City will issue to Licensee 
one or more Wireless Permits for any Poles not already subject to a Wireless Permit, which will 
grant Licensee the right to use the space on the subject Pole approved for the Equipment, which 
includes any conduits, pull boxes or other items specifically identified in the Approved Plans 
attached to the Wireless Permit.
2.1.2.
Limitations
This Master License applies to only Poles identified in final and fully executed Wireless 
Permits.  This Master License does not authorize Licensee or any other persons or entities to 
enter on to or use any other City Property, except the areas specified in any Wireless Permits.  
Furthermore, neither this Master License nor any Wireless Permit authorizes or confers any 
rights in Licensee or any other persons or entities to use any portions of the public rights-of-way, 
or any improvements or other personal property within the public rights-of-way owned by any 
third parties. In the event of a conflict between this Master License and a Wireless Permit, the 
terms of the Wireless Permit will govern.
2.1.3.
Limited Interest Created
Licensee expressly acknowledges and agrees that (1) Licensee does not have any rights to 
use or possess interest or rights in any Pole for any purpose whatsoever until and unless the City 
issues a Wireless Permit for such Pole; and (2) it is the parties’ intent that neither this Master 
License nor any Wireless Permit issued pursuant to this Master License creates or will be 
deemed to create any leasehold, easement, franchise or any other possessory interest or real 
property interest whatsoever.  In the event that there is a determination that ad valorem, privilege 
or other taxes or assessments are to be levied as a result of this Master License, Licensee shall be 
obligated to pay any such possessory interest taxes as set forth in paragraph 12 below.
40 of 574

--- page 41 ---
Page 5 of 33
39
107770644_2
2.1.4.
Limited Rights Created
Any Wireless Permit the City approves pursuant to this Master License grants to 
Licensee only a non-possessory and revocable permit to enter on to and use the permitted area 
for the Permitted Use.  Licensee expressly acknowledges and agrees that (1) neither this Master 
License or any Wireless Permit will be coupled with an interest; (2) the City retains legal 
possession and control over all Poles for the City’s operations, which will be superior to 
Licensee’s interest at all times; (3) subject to the terms and conditions in this Master License, the 
City may terminate a Wireless Permit in whole or in part at any time; (4) except as specifically 
provided otherwise in this Master License, the City may enter into any agreement with third 
parties in connection with use and occupancy of Poles and other City Property; (5) Licensee has 
no ownership rights in any Pole whatsoever; and (6) neither this Master License nor any 
Wireless Permit creates or will be deemed to create any partnership or joint venture between the 
City and Licensee.
2.1.5.
No Impediment to Municipal Uses
Except as specifically provided otherwise in this Master License, neither this Master 
License nor any Wireless Permit limits, alters or waives the City’s right to use any License Area 
in whole or in part as infrastructure established and maintained for the City’s and the public’s 
benefit.
2.2.
Diminutions in Light, Air and Signal
In the event that any existing or future structure diminishes any light, air or signal 
propagation, transmission or reception, whether erected by the City or not, Licensee shall not be 
entitled to any reduction in any license charge, additional fees or any other sums payable to the 
City under this Master License or any Wireless Permit, and the City shall have no liability to 
Licensee whatsoever and such diminution will not affect this Master License, any Wireless 
Permit or Licensee’s obligations except as may be expressly provided in this Master License.
2.3.
License Area Condition
2.3.1.
“As-Is and With All Faults” Condition
Licensee expressly acknowledges and agrees to enter on to and use the License Area in 
its “as-is and with all faults” condition.  The City makes no representations or warranties 
whatsoever, whether express or implied, as to the License Area’s condition or suitability for 
Licensee’s use.  Licensee expressly acknowledges and agrees that neither the City nor its Agents 
have made, and the City expressly disclaims, any representations or warranties whatsoever, 
whether express or implied, with respect to the physical, structural or environmental condition of 
the License Area, the present or future suitability of the License Area for the Permitted Use, or 
any other matter related to the License Area.
2.3.2.
Licensee’s Due Diligence
Licensee expressly represents and warrants to the City that Licensee has conducted a 
reasonably diligent and independent investigation, either for itself or through an Agent selected 
by Licensee, into the License Area condition and suitability for Licensee’s intended use, and that 
Licensee relies solely on its due diligence for such determination.  Licensee further expressly 
41 of 574

--- page 42 ---
Page 6 of 33
39
107770644_2
represents and warrants to the City that Licensee’s intended use is the Permitted Use as defined 
in Section 5 in this Master License.
2.3.3.
Certified Access Specialist Disclosure
Pursuant to California Civil Code § 1938, and to the extent applicable to this Master 
License, the City expressly advises Licensee, and Licensee expressly acknowledges, that a 
Certified Access Specialist (as defined in California Civil Code § 55.53) has not inspected any 
License Area in whole or in part to determine whether it meets all applicable construction-related 
accessibility requirements.
3.
TERM
3.1.
Master License Term.
The initial term under this Master License (the “Initial Term”) will commence on the Effective 
Date and will expire ten (10) years from the Effective Date, unless earlier terminated in 
accordance with this Master License. This Master License shall be automatically renewed 
annually for one-year renewal terms for up to an additional fifteen (15) years (each, a “Renewal 
Term”), unless Licensee notifies the City in writing of Licensee’s intent not to renew this Master 
License at least thirty (30) days, or City notifies Licensee in writing of City’s intent not to renew 
this Master License at least one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the expiration of the Initial 
Term or any Renewal Term.  The Initial Term and all Renewal Terms shall be collectively 
referred to herein as the “Term.”    
3.2.
Wireless Permit Term.
The term of each Wireless Permit shall be for ten (10) years beginning on the 
Commencement Date, as defined in Section 4.1.1, unless earlier terminated pursuant to this 
Master License.  Unless Licensee is in material breach of this Master License beyond the 
applicable cure period or the Master License has terminated or Licensee provides written notice 
to the City prior to the expiration of the then current term that Licensee will not renew the 
Wireless Permit term, the term will automatically renew annually for one-year renewal terms for 
up to an additional fifteen (15) years , upon the same terms and conditions set forth in this 
Master License, including the termination provisions set forth above. 
4.
LICENSE CHARGE; OTHER PAYMENTS
4.1.
License Charges
4.1.1.
Commencement Date
Licensee shall pay an annual License Charge under each Wireless Permit beginning on its 
“Commencement Date,” which is defined as either: (1) the first anniversary of the effective date 
of the Wireless Permit or (2) the first day of the month before the date Licensee commences 
construction in the License Area necessary for the Permitted Use (whichever occurs later).  The 
parties define a “License Year” to mean any 12-month period (or shorter period in the event that 
a Wireless Permit commences less than 12 months from the next January 1 or the expiration date 
of this Master License) that begins on the Commencement Date for each Wireless Permit. 
Licensee shall provide written notice of the Commencement Date to the City. If the City does not 
42 of 574

--- page 43 ---
Page 7 of 33
39
107770644_2
acknowledge and return or object to such notice within 10 days of receipt, the Commencement 
Date shall be deemed confirmed as the date provided on such notice.
4.1.2.
License Charge Amount
Licensee shall pay to the City an annual charge of $270.00 per pole (the “License 
Charge”). Payment of the initial License Charge payment shall be made within ninety (90) days 
after confirmation the Commencement Date and thereafter each subsequent annual License 
Charge payment shall be made on or before each anniversary of the Commencement Date.  City 
shall provide Licensee a completed, current Internal Revenue Service Form W-9 and state and 
local withholding forms if required. Licensee may make payments by check made out to the 
order of the City of San Mateo and sent to the following address or through electronic transfer 
subject to the City’s approval and necessary bank routing instructions.
City of San Mateo
Department of Public Works
Attn:  Administration 
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403
(650) 522-7300
4.2.
Administrative Fees
4.2.1.
Permit Fees
Licensee will pay the permit and processing fees set forth in the City’s Master Fee 
Schedule that is part of City’s applicable ordinance for Department Public Works permit fees and 
in conjunction with the FCC order 18-133.
4.3.
Late Charges
In the event that Licensee fails to pay any fee or any other amount payable to the City 
within 30 days after the City notifies Licensee in writing that such amounts are due and unpaid, 
such amounts will be subject to a late charge equal to 2% of unpaid amounts.
5.
USES
5.1.
Permitted Use
Licensee may use the License Area solely for the Permitted Use in compliance with all 
applicable Laws and any conditions in any Regulatory Approvals and for no other use 
whatsoever without the City’s prior written consent, which the City may withhold in its sole and 
absolute discretion for any or no reason.  Licensee may sublicense or otherwise allow its Invitees 
to use capacity on Licensee’s Equipment; provided, however, that any such third parties shall not 
be permitted to perform any physical work on any Pole without the City’s prior written consent, 
which the City may reasonably withhold or condition as the City deems necessary to protect the 
Pole or public health safety and/or welfare.
43 of 574

--- page 44 ---
Page 8 of 33
39
107770644_2
5.2.
Prohibition on “Macro Cell” Uses
The City and Licensee intend this Master License and any Wireless Permit to cover only 
“small cell” installations, as defined in state and federal law and in the FCC Order.  Licensee 
expressly acknowledges and agrees that the Permitted Use under this Master License does not 
include the right to use any Pole as a support structure for a “macro cell” or a traditional wireless 
tower typically constructed on private property.
5.3.
Prohibition on Illegal Uses or Nuisances
Licensee shall not use the License Area in whole or in part in any unlawful manner or for 
any illegal purpose.  In addition, Licensee shall not use the License Area in whole or in part in 
any manner that constitutes a nuisance or hazard as determined by the City in its reasonable 
judgment.  Licensee shall take all precautions to eliminate any nuisances or hazards in 
connection with its uses and activities on or about the License Area.
5.4.
Signs or Advertisements
Licensee acknowledges and agrees that its rights under this Master License and any 
Wireless Permit do not authorize Licensee to erect, post or maintain, or permit others to erect, 
post or maintain, any signs, notices, graphics or advertisements whatsoever on the License Area; 
except as required by the FCC and applicable Laws.
6.
WIRELESS PERMITS REQUIRED
6.1.
City Approval Required
Licensee shall not have any right to use the License Area in whole or in part for any 
purpose until and unless the City approves a Wireless Permit for that License Area.  Subject to 
any express limitations in this Master License, the City will not be obligated to subordinate its 
municipal functions or proprietary interest in any manner whatsoever to Licensee’s interest under 
any Wireless Permit.  When the City considers whether to approve or disapprove any Wireless 
Permit Application, the City may consider any matter that affects its municipal functions or 
proprietary interests, which include without limitation: (1) Licensee’s proposed plans and 
Equipment specifications; (2) compliance with any applicable Laws; (3) impacts on the City’s 
street light operations; (4) any potential hazards or unsafe conditions that could result from 
Licensee’s installation, operation or maintenance; (5) any potential visual or aesthetic impacts as 
set forth in applicable Laws; (6) the additional load on the Pole the proposed Equipment would 
create; and (7) any municipal plans for the Pole or right-of-way in proximity to the Pole. 
Licensee shall file with the City a Wireless Permit Application for one or more City Poles 
where Licensee desires to install Equipment. Within the timeframes required by the FCC Order, 
which period may be extended by mutual written consent, the City shall, in writing, either 
approve the Wireless Permit Application, or reject the Wireless Permit Application by 
identifying the specific reasons why the Wireless Permit Application is not in compliance with 
this Master License, the City’s Wireless Telecommunications Ordinance, or design and 
engineering standards, otherwise the City Pole Application shall be deemed accepted. The 
review period for the Wireless Permit Application will be in compliance with FCC regulations, 
rulings, and orders.
44 of 574

--- page 45 ---
Page 9 of 33
39
107770644_2
6.1.1.
City’s Right to Disapprove
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, Licensee acknowledges that the City reserves 
the absolute right to disapprove any Wireless Permit Application in whole or in part when the 
City determines in its sole judgment that the subject Pole Location or proposed Equipment would 
interfere with the City’s municipal functions or create a hazardous or unsafe condition.
7.
EQUIPMENT INSTALLATION
7.1.
Approved Plans and Equipment Specifications
Licensee must submit detailed plans and equipment specifications with Wireless Permit 
Application, which must include without limitation all equipment, mounts, hardware, utilities, 
cables, conduits, signage, concealment elements and other improvements proposed in connection 
with the License Area.  Licensee acknowledges that the exhibit to any approved Wireless Permit 
will be deemed to be the “Approved Plans” and that Licensee will be permitted to install only 
the Equipment and other improvements shown on such Approved Plans.
7.2.
Installation; Strict Compliance with Approved Plans
Licensee shall not commence any work at the License Area until the licensee has 
obtained a Wireless Permit.  Licensee shall perform all work in connection with the License Area 
in strict compliance with the Approved Plans and in a diligent, skillful and workmanlike manner.  
All installed Equipment must be high quality, safe, fire resistant, modern in design and attractive 
in appearance, all as approved by the City.  After any work at the License Area concludes, 
Licensee shall restore the License Area and any other City Property to the condition that existed 
immediately prior to when the work commenced.
7.2.1.
Alterations to City’s Property
Neither Licensee nor its Agents or Invitees may remove, damage or in any manner alter 
any City Property without prior written consent from the City and any other City agencies with 
jurisdiction over the subject City Property.  The City may withhold its consent in its sole and 
absolute discretion, and may reasonably condition its consent in each instance based on scope 
and nature of the proposed alterations.  Licensee shall immediately notify the City if any 
removal, damage or other alteration occurs to City Property for any reason and through any 
cause.
7.2.2.
Licensee’s Contractors
Licensee shall use only qualified and trained persons and appropriately licensed 
contractors for all work performed on or about the License Area.  At least five (5) business days 
before any work commences on or about the License Area, Licensee shall provide the City with: 
(1) a schedule with all activities to be performed in connection with the work; and (2) a list with 
all the names, contractors’ license numbers, contact information, and business addresses for all 
contractors or subcontractors who will perform the work.
45 of 574

--- page 46 ---
Page 10 of 33
39
107770644_2
7.3.
Labor and Materials Costs
Licensee shall be responsible for all direct and indirect costs (labor, materials, and 
overhead or prevailing wages if required) in connection with designing, purchasing and installing 
all Equipment in accordance with the Approved Plans and all applicable Laws.  Licensee shall 
also bear all costs to obtain and maintain all Regulatory Approvals required in connection with 
the installation, which includes without limitation all direct and indirect costs to comply with any 
approval conditions or mitigation measures that arise from Licensee’s proposed installation.  
Licensee shall timely pay for all labor, materials, Equipment and all professional services related 
to the Permitted Use or furnished to the License Area at Licensee’s direction or for Licensee’s 
benefit.
7.4.
Prevailing Wages
The services to be provided under this Section 7 may be subject to prevailing wage rate 
payment as set forth in California Labor Code Section 1771.  Accordingly, to the extent that such 
services are subject to the prevailing wage rate payment requirements, Licensee shall comply 
with all California Labor Code requirements pertaining to “public works,” including the payment 
of prevailing wages in connection with the services to be provided hereunder (collectively, 
“Prevailing Wage Policies”). 
Licensee shall defend, indemnify and hold the City harmless and its officers, officials, 
employees, volunteers, agents and representatives (collectively, “Indemnitees”) from and against 
any and all present and future liabilities, obligations, orders, claims, damages, fines, penalties 
and expenses (including attorneys’ fees and costs) (collectively, “Claims”), arising out of or in 
any way connected with Licensee’s obligation to comply with all laws with respect to the work 
of improvements or Prevailing Wage Policies, including all Claims that may be made by 
contractors, subcontractors or other third party claimants pursuant to Labor Code sections 1726 
and 1781, as amended and added by Senate Bill 966.
7.5.
Title to Licensee’s Equipment and Other Improvements
Except as specifically provided otherwise in this Master License, all Equipment and other 
improvements installed, constructed or placed on or about the License Area by Licensee or its 
Agents or Invitees will be deemed and remain at all times Licensee’s personal property.  All 
structural improvements to any Pole, any replacement Pole and any underground fiber optic 
cables, all as approved by the City and shown in the Approved Plans, will become and remain 
City Property should Licensee vacate or abandon such License Area, unless the City elects in a 
written notice to Licensee that it does not wish to take title to such structural improvements.  
Subject to Section 22 (Surrender of License Area), Licensee may remove its Equipment from the 
License Area at any time after 30 days’ written notice to the City.
8.
PUBLIC WORKS OPERATIONS
8.1.
City’s Access to License Areas
Except as specifically provided otherwise in this Master License, the City and its Agents 
have the right to access any License Area in whole or in part at any time without notice for any 
purpose.  The City will not be liable in any manner whatsoever, and Licensee expressly waives 
46 of 574

--- page 47 ---
Page 11 of 33
39
107770644_2
any claims for inconvenience, disturbance, lost business, nuisance or other damages that may 
arise from the City’s or its Agents’ access to the License Area, which includes any Equipment 
removed in an emergency or other exigent circumstances pursuant to Section 8.4 (Emergencies), 
except to the extent that the damage arises from the negligence or willful misconduct of the City 
or its Agents.
8.2.
Repairs, Maintenance and Alterations to Poles
The City and/or the City’s Public Works Department will: (1) maintain and repair Poles 
as needed, in its sole judgment, for its street light operations and other municipal functions; (2) 
correct any immediately hazardous condition.  Excluding conditions that arise from the City’s or 
its Agents’ negligence or willful misconduct, neither any City work on any Pole nor any 
condition on any Pole will: (a) entitle Licensee to any damages; (b) excuse or reduce any 
obligation by Licensee to pay any License Charges or additional fees or perform any covenant 
under this Master License; or (c) constitute or be construed as a constructive termination of this 
Master License or any Wireless Permit.
8.3.
Repairs, Maintenance and Alterations to License Areas
The City may, at any time, alter, add to, repair, remove from and/or improve the License 
Area in whole or in part for any operational purpose, which includes without limitation 
maintenance and improvements in connection with street light services and compliance with 
Laws; provided (1) the City makes a good-faith effort to provide advance notice to Licensee’s 
On-Call Representative as soon as reasonably practicable; (2) the City allows Licensee’s 
representative to observe the City’s work; and (3) the City takes reasonable steps not to disrupt 
Licensee’s ordinary operations on the License Area.  The provisions in this Section 8.3 will not 
be construed to allow Licensee’s ordinary operations to impede or delay the City’s authority and 
ability to make changes to the License Areas necessary to maintain street light services.
8.4.
Emergencies
In emergencies, the City’s work will take precedence over Licensee’s operations, which 
includes without limitation any Equipment operated on the License Area, and the City may 
access the License Area in whole or in part as the City deems necessary in its sole determination 
and in accordance with this Section 8.4, whether the City has notified Licensee of such 
emergency or other exigent circumstances or not.  When safe and practicable, the City will notify 
Licensee of any emergency or other exigent circumstances that requires the City to remove or 
replace any Pole and will allow Licensee to remove its Equipment before the City removes or 
replaces the Pole; provided, however, that the City will remove the Equipment from the Pole 
when in the City’s sole determination it would (1) be unsafe to wait for Licensee to perform the 
work; or (2) otherwise threaten or compromise public safety or public services.  The City will 
remove any Equipment with reasonable care and store the Equipment for retrieval by Licensee 
and the City will provide notice as soon as reasonably practicable after such emergency, but in 
no event later than 24 hours after the emergency.  Licensee shall have the right to reinstall such 
removed Equipment or equivalent Equipment at Licensee’s sole expense on the repaired or 
replaced Pole and in accordance with Section 7 (Equipment Installation).  The City’s removal of 
Licensee’s Equipment in emergencies or other exigent circumstances will not be deemed to be a 
forcible or unlawful entry onto the License Area or any interference with Licensee’s contractual 
privilege to use the License Area.
47 of 574

--- page 48 ---
Page 12 of 33
39
107770644_2
9.
LICENSEE’S MAINTENANCE OBLIGATIONS
9.1.
Damage to Poles
9.1.1.
Notice to the City
Licensee agrees to give the City notice of the need for any repair to a Pole promptly after 
Licensee discovers any damage from any cause.  Licensee’s agreement to provide notice is not 
an assumption of liability for any life-threatening or hazardous conditions unless caused by the 
acts, omissions or negligence of Licensee or its Agents or Invitees.
9.1.2.
Damage Caused by Licensee
In the event that any use or maintenance by Licensee or its Agents or Invitees cause any 
damage to any Pole, Licensee must repair such damage within 30 days after the City provides a 
written notice to Licensee that describes such damage.  Such 30-day cure period may be 
extended to a date certain if the City agrees the cure reasonably requires more time.  In the event 
that Licensee fails to timely cure the damage, the City may repair the damage at Licensee’s 
expense.  Licensee will reimburse the City for all costs incurred to repair such damage within 30 
days after Licensee receives the City’s demand for payment, together with copies of invoices or 
other evidence to document the costs incurred.
9.1.3.
No Right to Repair
Absent notice from the City with a demand to cure any damage to a Pole, or as provided 
in Section 14.1.1 below, Licensee is not authorized to make any repairs to any Pole.  
9.2.
Equipment Maintenance
Licensee shall, at its sole cost and expense, install, maintain and promptly repair any 
damage to any Equipment installed on the License Area whenever repair or maintenance may be 
required, subject to the City’s prior approval if required under Section 7 (Equipment 
Installation).  Licensee is not required to seek the City’s prior approval for any Equipment repair, 
maintenance, replacement or other installation on the License Area when such Equipment is 
shown on the Approved Plans.  Licensee must obtain the City’s prior written approval for any 
Equipment repair, maintenance, replacement or other installation that involves larger, different or 
additional Equipment than shown on the Approved Plans.  Any work on Licensee’s Equipment 
installed on Poles that is authorized or permitted under this Section 9.2 is subject to Licensee 
obtaining any required Regulatory Approvals.
9.3.
Graffiti Abatement
Licensee’s repair and maintenance obligation includes the removal of any graffiti or 
similar vandalism from the License Area within 48 hours after the City notifies Licensee in 
writing of said graffiti or vandalism.
9.4.
Standard of Work
All work performed by or for Licensee under this Section 9.4 shall be: (1) at Licensee’s 
sole cost and expense; (2) performed only by qualified and trained persons and appropriately 
48 of 574

--- page 49 ---
Page 13 of 33
39
107770644_2
licensed contractors; (3) performed in a manner and with equipment and materials that will not 
interfere with or impair the City’s operations; (4) compliant with all applicable Laws; and (5) 
performed solely by Licensee and not by Licensee’s Invitees.
10.
LIENS
Licensee shall keep the License Area free and clear from any and all liens in connection with any 
work performed, material furnished or obligations incurred by or for Licensee.  Licensee shall 
inform each and every contractor and material supplier that provides any work, service, 
equipment or material to Licensee in any way connected with Licensee’s use of the License Area 
that the License Area is public property and is not subject to mechanics’ liens or stop notices for 
Equipment or other materials or services provided for Licensee’s Equipment.  If Licensee does 
not cause the release of lien of a mechanic’s lien or stop notice by any contractor, service 
provider or equipment or material supplier purporting to attach to the License Area or other City 
Property arising from work done by or on behalf of Licensee within 30 days after written notice 
or discovery of the lien, the City will have the right, but not the obligation, to cause the same to 
be released by any means it deems proper, including payment of the claim giving rise to such 
lien.  Licensee must reimburse the City for all expenses it incurs in connection with any such lien 
(including reasonable attorneys’ fees) within 30 days following receipt of the City’s written 
demand together with copies of invoices or other evidence to document the costs incurred.  
Licensee shall give the City at least 10 days’ prior notice of commencement of any construction 
or installation on any part of the License Area except for minor and routine repair and 
maintenance of Licensee’s Equipment.  Licensee shall not create, permit, or suffer any other 
encumbrances affecting any portion of the License Area.
11.
UTILITIES
Licensee shall be solely responsible for obtaining and maintaining electric service for the 
Equipment, including, but not limited to, making payments to electric utilities and installation of 
separate electric meters, if necessary.
12.
TAXES AND ASSESSMENTS
49 of 574

--- page 50 ---
Page 14 of 33
39
107770644_2
If City is required by law to collect any federal, state, or local tax, fee, or other 
governmental imposition (each, a “Tax”) from Licensee with respect to the transactions 
contemplated by this Master License, then City shall bill such Tax to Licensee in the manner and 
for the amount required by law, Licensee shall promptly pay such billed amount of Tax to City, 
and City shall remit such Tax to the appropriate tax authorities as required by law; provided, 
however, that City shall not bill to or otherwise attempt to collect from Licensee any Tax with 
respect to which Licensee has provided City with an exemption certificate or other reasonable 
basis for relieving City of its responsibility to collect such tax from Licensee.  Licensee shall be 
responsible for all Taxes that are assessed against or are otherwise the legal responsibility of 
Licensee with respect to itself and its property.
13.
COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS
13.1.
Compliance with Current and Future Laws
Licensee shall install, operate and maintain the Equipment, and shall perform all work in 
connection with such installation, operation and maintenance, in strict compliance with all 
applicable Laws and all conditions in any Regulatory Approvals issued in connection with the 
Equipment or its installation and operation on any Pole.  
13.2.
Licensee’s Personnel
13.2.1.
Personnel Training and Certification
Licensee shall ensure that all persons who install, operate or maintain the Equipment are 
appropriately trained and licensed by the California State Contractors Licensing Board as 
required under applicable CPUC rules and regulations.  Licensee shall ensure that such persons 
are trained in and observe all safety requirements established by the City, the CPUC and the 
California Division of Occupational Safety and Health, Department of Industrial Relations or its 
duly appointed successor agency, which includes without limitation site orientation, tag-out and 
lock-out de-energization rules, ladder and lift restrictions and track and street right-of-way safety 
requirements.
13.2.2.
Licensee’s Indemnification for Personnel Injuries
Licensee acknowledges that (1) the City has delegated to Licensee control over the 
License Area at any time in which Licensee or its Agents are installing, operating or maintaining 
the Equipment; and (2) the City is not a co-employer of any employee of Licensee or any 
employee of Licensee’s Agents.  The City shall not be liable for any Claim (defined in Section 
17 (Licensee’s Indemnification Obligations)) by Licensee’s or its Agent’s employee(s), except 
where such Claim is directly caused by the sole negligence or willful misconduct of the City.  
Licensee agrees to fully indemnify, defend and hold the City harmless in the same manner as 
provided in Section 17 (Licensee’s Indemnification Obligations) against any Claim by any 
employee of Licensee or its Agents that arises in connection with Licensee’s or its Agents’ 
activities pursuant to this License Agreement, except to the extent such Claims arise out of the 
sole negligence or willful misconduct of the City, its employees or agents.  
50 of 574

--- page 51 ---
Page 15 of 33
39
107770644_2
13.3.
Compliance with CPUC GO 95
Licensee shall conduct all activities on the License Area in accordance with CPUC 
General Order 95 and the rules and other requirements enacted by the CPUC under that General 
Order, as applicable and as amended.
13.4.
Compliance with Building and Electric Codes
Licensee shall conduct all activities on the License Area in accordance with the 
requirements of the California Building Code, the California Electric Code, National Electric 
Safety Code IEEE C2 (the “NESC”), to the extent such requirements apply to Licensee’s 
Permitted Use, and any applicable local building electrical code, as those codes exist now or may 
be amended in the future.  To the extent that CPUC General Order 95 does not address cellular 
telephone antenna installations on Poles carrying electrical lines, Licensee shall apply, if 
applicable, provisions of the NESC, with particular attention to paragraphs 224, 235C, 235F, 
238, 239 and 239H and sections 22, 41 and 44.  Where any conflict exists between the California 
Building Code, the NESC, the California Electric Code, any local code and CPUC General Order 
128, the more stringent requirements will apply, as determined by the City.
13.5.
Compliance with EMF Exposure Regulations
Licensee’s obligation to comply with all Laws includes all Laws related to maximum 
permissible exposure to EMF emissions on or about the License Area, which includes all 
applicable FCC standards, applicable to Licensee’s Equipment. Prior to submitting, or 
concurrently with, a Wireless Permit Application, Licensee must comply with the City’s 
telecommunications ordinance and Design and Engineering Standards, for each proposed Pole on 
which the Licensee desires to install or operate its Equipment In the event any subsequent EMF 
Compliance Report submitted by Licensee or other permittee determines that the EMF levels at 
the License Area exceed FCC standards for the maximum permissible exposure to EMF 
emissions, Licensee must promptly demonstrate to the satisfaction of the City compliance with 
the requirements of 47 Code of Federal Regulations Section 1.1307 or any other then-applicable 
Laws related to EMF levels from Licensee’s equipment.  
14.
DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION
14.1.
City’s Rights After Damage or Destruction
In the event the License Area in whole or in part becomes damaged due to any cause 
other than the negligence or willful misconduct of City, its Agents or Invitees, the City (1) will 
have no obligation whatsoever to repair or replace the damaged License Area or Licensee’s 
Equipment; and (2) may, in the City’s sole and absolute discretion, elect to take any of the 
following actions:
14.1.1.
Election to Repair or Replace Damaged Pole
Within 30 days after the date on which the City discovers damage or destruction of a Pole 
that was not caused by Licensee, the City will give Licensee notice of the City’s decision 
whether to repair or replace the damaged Pole and its good faith estimate of the amount of time 
the City will need to complete the work.  If the City cannot complete the work within 30 days 
after the date that the City specifies in its notice, or if the City elects not to perform the work, 
51 of 574

--- page 52 ---
Page 16 of 33
39
107770644_2
then Licensee will have the right to terminate the affected Wireless Permit on 30 days’ notice to 
the City. However, if City elects not to perform such work, Licensee may perform such work at 
its sole cost and expense, subject to City approval of Licensee’s plans and specifications and 
Licensee’s compliance with City permit requirements. In such case, the affected Wireless Permit 
will remain in full force and effect.
14.1.2.
Election to Remove Damaged Pole
If the City elects to remove, rather than repair or replace, a damaged Pole, and Licensee 
does not elect to repair the Pole at its sole cost and expense, and the City has no other viable pole 
options for relocation of the Equipment,  then the applicable Wireless Permit will automatically 
terminate on the last day of the month in which the removal occurs.
14.1.3.
Election to Remove Equipment from Damaged Pole
If the acts of third parties or an act of nature or other force majeure circumstance outside 
the control of Licensee or its Agents or Invitees destroys or damages any Pole to such an extent 
that, in the City’s reasonable determination after consultation with Licensee, the Equipment on 
the Pole cannot be operated, the City may decide to terminate the affected Wireless Permit on 30 
days’ notice to Licensee and require Licensee to remove the Equipment from the damaged Pole 
before the termination date specified in the City’s notice, provided, however such removal date 
shall not be any earlier than 60 days following the City’s notice.  Notwithstanding anything in 
this Master License or any Wireless Permit to the contrary, the City will have the right to remove 
any damaged Pole when deemed necessary, in the City’s sole determination, to protect the public 
or property from imminent (whether threatened or actual) harm.
14.2.
Licensee’s Rights upon Termination
After the City terminates a Wireless Permit pursuant to Section 14.1 (City’s Rights After 
Damage or Destruction), the City will: (1) refund any pre-paid License Charge in connection 
with the terminated Wireless Permit on a pro-rata basis determined by the number of months left 
in the current License Year at the time such termination occurs; and (2) make efforts to prioritize 
Licensee’s Wireless Permit Application for one replacement Pole.  However, nothing in this 
provision shall require the City to replace any Pole or Wireless Permit that has been terminated.
15.
CONDEMNATION
15.1.
Permanent Takings
In the event that any entity with the power to condemn permanently takes any License 
Area in whole or in part, or in the event that the City transfers any License Area in whole or in 
part to such entity in lieu of eminent domain, the following provisions will apply:
15.1.1.
Termination
Any affected Wireless Permit will automatically terminate as to the part taken or 
transferred on the date the permanent taking or transfer occurs, and the License Charge under the 
affected Wireless Permit will be ratably reduced to account for the reduction in License Area.
52 of 574

--- page 53 ---
Page 17 of 33
39
107770644_2
15.1.2.
Award
The City will be entitled to any award paid or made in connection with the taking or any 
sums paid in lieu of such taking.  Licensee will have no claim against the City for the value of 
any unexpired Term of any Wireless Permit or otherwise except that Licensee may claim any 
portion of the award that is specifically allocable to Licensee’s loss or damage to Licensee’s 
Equipment.
15.1.3.
No Statutory Right to Terminate
The parties understand, acknowledge and agree that this Section 15.1 (Permanent 
Takings) is intended to fully govern the parties’ rights and obligations in the event of a 
permanent taking.  Licensee and the City each hereby waives and releases any right to terminate 
this Master License in whole or in part under California Code of Civil Procedure §§ 1265.120 
and 1265.130 and under any similar Laws to the extent applicable to this Master License.
15.2.
Temporary Takings
Any taking that affects any License Area in whole or in part for less than 90 days will 
have no effect on the affected Wireless Permit, except that Licensee will be entitled to a pro-rata 
abatement in the applicable License Charge to the extent that such temporary taking materially 
impairs Licensee’s use of the License Area.  Furthermore, in the event that the City receives an 
award, if any, in connection with such temporary taking, Licensee will receive the portion from 
the award that represents compensation for the use or occupancy of the License Area during the 
Term but not to exceed the License Charges and additional fees payable by Licensee for the 
period of the taking, and the City will retain the balance of the award.
16.
ASSIGNMENT AND OTHER TRANSFERS
16.1.
General Restriction
Except as specifically provided in Section 16.3 (Permitted Assignments), Licensee shall not 
directly or indirectly assign its interests or rights, whether in whole or in part, in connection with 
this Master License, any Wireless Permit or the License Area without the City’s prior written 
consent, except that no such consent shall be required in the event of an assignment by Licensee 
to a “Related Party.”  For purposes of this paragraph, the term “Related Party” shall be defined 
as (a) a surviving or successor company to Licensee in the event of a merger or consolidation; 
(b) a company owned by Licensee; (c) a company that owns Licensee; or (d) a company that is 
owned by the same company as Licensee.  In clauses (b), (c) and (d), the terms “owned” and 
“owns” include direct or indirect ownership.  Notice only is required for an assignment by 
Licensee to a Related Party.  Where notice only is required, Licensee shall notify City of any 
assignment, transfer of the privileges contained in this Agreement within sixty (60) days of 
occurrence .  The City shall not unreasonably withhold, delay or condition its consent to any 
proposed Assignment; provided, however, that the parties acknowledge that the City may 
reasonably withhold its consent to any proposed Assignment at any time in which any monetary 
or other material default by Licensee under this Master License remains uncured. 
Licensor acknowledges that Licensee may enter into financing arrangements including 
promissory notes and financial and security agreements for the financing of the Licensee 
53 of 574

--- page 54 ---
Page 18 of 33
39
107770644_2
Attachments (the “Collateral”) with third party financing entities.  In connection therewith, 
Licensor (i) consents to the installation of the Collateral consistent with the other terms of this 
Agreement; (ii) disclaims any interest in the Collateral, as fixtures or otherwise; and (iii) agrees 
that the Collateral shall be exempt from execution, foreclosure, sale, levy, attachment, or distress 
for any rent due or to become due and that such Collateral may be removed at any time 
consistent with the other terms of this Agreement without recourse to legal proceedings .
16.2.
Proposed Assignment Procedures
16.2.1.
Proposed Assignment Notice
Other than with respect to a Permitted Assignment, in the event that Licensee desires to 
Assign this its interests or rights, whether in whole or in part, in connection with this Master 
License, any Wireless Permit or the License Area, Licensee shall first send written notice (the 
“Proposed Assignment Notice”) to the City, which states in detail the proposed terms and 
conditions for the Assignment and financial information sufficient to show that the proposed 
assignee (the “Proposed Assignee”) has a demonstrated ability to perform all the obligations of 
Licensee under this Master License and any Wireless Permit issued hereunder.  In addition, upon 
a written request from the City, Licensee or the Proposed Assignee shall provide additional 
information, which includes without limitation financial statements, business track records, 
references and other information about the Proposed Assignee that the City reasonably requires 
to fully evaluate Licensee’s request and render an informed decision.  In the event that Licensee 
does not provide all the such information simultaneously with the Proposed Assignment Notice, 
the Proposed Assignment Notice shall not be deemed effective until Licensee delivers all such 
information as the City may reasonably require.
16.2.2.
City Response
The City shall approve or disapprove any request for consent to an Assignment within 30 
days after the City receives a complete Proposed Assignment Notice, or 45 days after the 
deemed-effective date if Licensee delivers an incomplete Proposed Assignment Notice as 
described in Section 16.2.1 (Proposed Assignment Notice) (in either case, the “Assignment 
Response Period”).  The City shall not unreasonably withhold approval if the proposed assignee 
has a demonstrated ability to perform all the obligations of Licensee under this Master License 
and any Wireless Permit issued hereunder.  If the City fails to respond within the Assignment 
Response Period, Licensee will provide a second notice with a clear heading in bold and all 
capital letters indicating it is the second notice and if City does not respond with approval or 
written reasons for disapproval within 30 days from receipt of the second notice, the request for 
assignment shall be deemed approved.  Notwithstanding anything in this Master License or any 
Wireless Permit to the contrary, the City may, in its sole and absolute discretion, refuse consent 
to any assignment to a Proposed Assignee with (i) liquid assets or other immediately available 
funds less than Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000); (ii) any history of discrimination or other 
employment practices that conflict with the City’s non-discrimination policies; or (iii) any 
pending or past criminal convictions or civil judgements that would impugn or damage the City’s 
reputation by association with said Proposed Assignee.
54 of 574

--- page 55 ---
Page 19 of 33
39
107770644_2
16.3.
Permitted Assignments
16.3.1.
Definition
The City agrees that Licensee will be permitted to enter into an Assignment of this 
Master License and Wireless Permits issued under it (a “Permitted Assignment”), without the 
City’s prior consent but with notice to the City as provided below, to: (i) Licensee’s parent; (ii) a 
Licensee’s subsidiary; (iii) an entity that acquires all or substantially all of Licensee’s assets in 
the market in which the License Area is located (as the market is defined by the FCC under an 
order or directive of the FCC); (iv) an entity that acquires Licensee by a change of stock 
ownership or partnership interest; or (v) an entity that Controls Licensee, is Controlled by 
Licensee or that, with Licensee, is under the Common Control of a third party.
16.3.2.
Conditions
A Permitted Assignment is subject to all the following conditions: (a) the Assignee uses 
the License Area only for the Permitted Use and holds all Regulatory Approvals necessary to 
lawfully install, operate, and maintain Equipment on the License Area; (b) Licensee provides the 
City with notice 30 days before the effective date of Permitted Assignment, stating the contact 
information for the proposed Assignee and providing financial information establishing that the 
proposed Assignee has the capital and fiscal qualifications greater than or equal to Licensee’s; 
and (c) Licensee is in good standing under this Master License.
16.4.
Effect of Assignment
No Assignment by Licensee, consent to Assignment by the City, or Permitted 
Assignment under Section 16.3 (Permitted Assignments) to any Assignee or other third party 
will relieve Licensee of any obligation on its part under this Master License, until and unless the 
Assignee signs a written agreement in a form reasonably acceptable to the City to 
unconditionally assume all Licensee’s obligations under this Master License and any Wireless 
Permit issued hereunder.  Any Assignment that is not in compliance with this Section 16 will be 
void ab initio and be a material default by Licensee under this Master License without a 
requirement for notice and a right to cure.  The City’s acceptance of any License Charge, 
Additional Fee, or other payments from a proposed Assignee will not be deemed to be the City’s 
consent to such Assignment, recognition of any Assignee, or waiver of any failure of Licensee or 
other transferor to comply with this Section.
16.5.
Assumption by Transferee
Each Assignee shall assume all obligations of Licensee under this Master License and 
each assigned Wireless Permit and will be and remain liable jointly and severally with Licensee 
for all obligations to be performed by Licensee until and unless the Assignee signs a written 
agreement, in a form reasonably acceptable to the City, to unconditionally assume all Licensee’s 
obligations under this Master License and any Wireless Permit issued hereunder.  No 
Assignment will be binding on the City unless Licensee or the Assignee delivers to the City 
evidence reasonably satisfactory to the City that the Assignee has obtained all required 
Regulatory Approvals necessary to install, maintain and operate the Equipment and any other 
associated improvements or personal property, a copy of the Assignment agreement (or other 
document reasonably satisfactory to the City in the event of a Permitted Assignment under 
55 of 574

--- page 56 ---
Page 20 of 33
39
107770644_2
Section 16.3 (Permitted Assignments), and an instrument in recordable form that contains a 
covenant of assumption by such Assignee satisfactory in substance and form to the City, 
consistent with the requirements of this Article.  However, the failure or refusal of an Assignee 
to execute such instrument of assumption will not release such Assignee from its liability as set 
forth in this Section.  Except for a Permitted Assignment as provided in Section 16.3 (Permitted 
Assignments), Licensee shall reimburse the City on demand for any reasonable costs that the 
City incurs in connection with any proposed Assignment, including the costs of investigating the 
acceptability of the proposed Assignee and legal costs incurred in connection with considering 
any requested consent, which amount shall not exceed $5,000.
16.6 The Parties acknowledge that Equipment deployed by Licensee in the License 
Areas pursuant to this Agreement may be owned and/or remotely operated by third-party 
wireless carrier customer (“Carriers”) and installed and maintained by Licensee pursuant to 
existing agreements between Licensee and a Carrier.  Such Equipment shall be treated as 
Licensee’s Equipment for all purposes under this Master License and any applicable Pole 
License.  A Carrier’s ownership and/or operation of such Equipment shall not constitute an 
Assignment under this Master License, provided that  Licensee shall not actually or purport to 
sell, assign, encumber, pledge, or otherwise transfer any part of its interest in the License Area 
to a Carrier, or otherwise permit any portion of the License Area to be occupied by anyone 
other than itself.  Licensee shall remain solely responsible and liable for the performance of all 
obligations under this Master License and applicable Pole Licenses with respect to any 
Equipment owned and/or remotely operated by a Carrier.
17.
LICENSEE’S INDEMNIFICATION OBLIGATIONS
Licensee, for itself and its successors and assigns, shall indemnify, defend and hold the 
City, its officials, employees, Agents, Invitees and their respective heirs, legal representatives, 
successors and assigns (the “Indemnified Parties”), harmless from and against any and all 
liabilities, losses, costs, claims, judgments, settlements, damages, liens, fines, penalties and 
expenses, whether direct or indirect (each a “Claim”), to the extent incurred in connection with 
or arising in whole or in part from Licensee’s performance of this Master License.
18.
INSURANCE
As a condition of Wireless Permit issuance, Licensee will obtain insurance specified in 
Exhibit A to this Master License.
19.
LIMITATIONS ON THE CITY’S LIABILITY
19.1.
General Limitations on the City’s Liability
Except where otherwise provided in this Master License, the City is not responsible or 
liable to Licensee for, and Licensee hereby waives all claims against the City and its Agents and 
releases the City and its Agents from, all claims from any cause (except to the extent caused by 
the negligence or willful misconduct of the City other than Licensee or any third parties acting 
for Licensee or at Licensee’s direction), including acts or omissions of persons using the 
sidewalk or street adjoining or adjacent to or connected with the License Area; utility 
interruption; theft; burst, stopped or leaking water, gas, sewer or steam pipes; or gas, fire, oil, or 
electricity in, flood, or vehicle collision on or about the License Area or other City Property.
56 of 574

--- page 57 ---
Page 21 of 33
39
107770644_2
19.2.
Consequential Damages
Licensee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the License Charges and additional fees 
payable under this Master License do not take into account any potential liability of the City for 
consequential or incidental damages.  The City would not be willing to enter into this Master 
License or issue any Wireless Permits in the absence of a complete waiver of liability, to the 
fullest extent permitted by Law, for consequential or incidental damages due to the acts or 
omissions of the City, and Licensee expressly assumes the risk with respect thereto.  
Accordingly, without limiting any indemnification obligations of Licensee or other waivers 
contained in this Master License and as a material part of the consideration for this Master 
License, the parties agree that neither party will be liable to the other in connection with this 
Master License or any Wireless Permit for any consequential, special, indirect or incidental or 
punitive damages (including lost revenues, loss of equipment, interference, interruption or loss of 
service, or loss of data, inconvenience, disturbance, lost business, nuisance or other damages) for 
any cause of action, whether in contract, tort or otherwise, even if the party was or should have 
been aware of the possibility of these damages, whether under theory of contract, tort (including 
negligence), strict liability or otherwise.
19.3.
No Relocation Assistance
This Master License creates no right in Licensee to receive any relocation assistance or 
payment for any reason under the California Relocation Assistance Law (Cal.  Gov.  Code §§ 
7260 et seq.), the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act (42 
U.S.C. §§ 4601 et seq.) or similar Law upon any termination of occupancy except as provided in 
Section 15 (Condemnation).  To the extent that any relocation law may apply, Licensee waives, 
releases and relinquishes forever any and all claims that it may have against the City for any 
compensation from the City except as specifically provided in this Master License upon 
termination of its occupancy of all or any part of the License Area.
19.4.
Non-Liability for City Officials, Employees and Agents
No elective or appointive board, agency, member, officer, official, employee or other 
Agent of the City will be personally liable to Licensee, its successors and assigns, in the event of 
any default or breach by the City or for any amount which may become due to Licensee, its 
successors and assigns, or for any obligation of the City under this Master License.
20.
RECORDS
20.1.
Accounting Records
Licensee shall maintain throughout the Term and for at least four years after this Master 
License expires or terminates the following records in physical format at Licensee’s place of 
business within the State of California and in an electronic format: (1) site identification and 
location for all Poles under active Wireless Permits; (2) the amount and payment date for all 
License Charges paid to the City pursuant to this Master License; (3) all Regulatory Approvals 
issued in connection with the Equipment on Poles; and (4) all correspondence with the City in 
connection with any matter covered under this Master License.  The City, or its designee, will 
have the right to inspect and audit Licensee’s records at Licensee’s place of business during 
regular business hours on 10 days’ notice to Licensee.
57 of 574

--- page 58 ---
Page 22 of 33
39
107770644_2
21.
RULES AND REGULATIONS
At all times throughout the Term, Licensee shall faithfully comply with any and all 
reasonable rules, regulations and instructions that the City may from time-to-time establish 
and/or amend with respect to the License Area.
22.
SURRENDER OF LICENSE AREA
22.1.
Surrender
No later than 60 days after the expiration date of this Master License or other termination 
of this Master License or any Wireless Permit, Licensee shall, at its sole cost and expense, 
peaceably remove its Equipment from the License Area except for any other Equipment or 
improvements that the City agrees in writing to accept, repair any damages caused by the 
removal work and surrender the License Area to the City in good order and condition, normal 
wear and tear and casualty excepted, free of debris and hazards, and free and clear of all liens 
and encumbrances to the extent arising out of work done by or on behalf of Licensee.  Licensee’s 
obligations under this Section 22.1 will survive the expiration date of this Master License or 
other termination of this Master License.
23.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
23.1.
Hazardous Materials in License Area
Licensee covenants and agrees that neither Licensee nor any of its Agents or Invitees 
shall cause or permit any Hazardous Material to be brought upon, kept, used, stored, generated, 
disposed of or Released in, on, under or about the License Area or any other part of City 
Property, or transported to or from any City Property in violation of Environmental Laws, except 
that Licensee may use small quantities of Hazardous Materials as needed for routine operation, 
cleaning and maintenance of Licensee’s Equipment that are customarily used for routine 
operation, cleaning and maintenance of such equipment and so long as all such Hazardous 
Materials are contained, handled and used in compliance with Environmental Laws.  Licensee 
shall immediately notify the City if and when Licensee learns or has reason to believe any 
Release of Hazardous Material has occurred in, on, under or about the License Area or other City 
Property.
23.2.
Licensee’s Environmental Indemnity
If Licensee breaches any of its obligations contained in this Section, or if any act, 
omission, or negligence of Licensee or any of its Agents or Invitees results in any contamination 
of the License Area or other City Property, or in a Release of Hazardous Material from, on, 
about, in or beneath any part of the License Area or other City Property, or the violation of any 
Environmental Law, then Licensee, on behalf of itself and its successors and assigns, shall 
indemnify, defend and hold harmless the City, including its Agents, and their respective 
successors and assigns from and against any and all claims (including damages for decrease in 
value of the License Area or other City Property, the loss or restriction of the use of usable space 
in the License Area or other City Property and sums paid in settlement of claims, attorneys’ fees, 
consultants’ fees, and experts’ fees and related costs) arising during or after the Term of this 
Master License to the extent arising out of such Release or violation of Environmental Laws; 
58 of 574

--- page 59 ---
Page 23 of 33
39
107770644_2
provided, however, Licensee shall not be liable for any claims to the extent such Release was 
caused by the negligence or willful misconduct of the City or its Agents.  Licensee’s 
indemnification obligation includes costs incurred in connection with any activities required to 
Investigate and Remediate any Hazardous Material brought onto the License Area or other City 
Property by Licensee or any of its Agents or Invitees in violation of Law and to restore the 
License Area or other City Property to its condition prior to Licensee’s introduction of such 
Hazardous Material or to correct any violation of Environmental Laws by Licensee.  Licensee 
specifically acknowledges and agrees that it has an immediate and independent obligation to 
defend the City and the other Indemnified Parties from any claim that actually or potentially falls 
within this Indemnity provision even if the allegations supporting the claim are or may be 
groundless, fraudulent, or false, which obligation arises at the time such claim is tendered to 
Licensee by the Indemnified Party and continues until the claim is finally resolved, or it is 
determined that this Indemnity provision does not apply.  Without limiting the foregoing, if 
Licensee or any of its Agents or Invitees causes the Release of any Hazardous Material on, 
about, in, or beneath the License Area or other City Property, then in any such event Licensee 
shall, immediately, at no expense to any Indemnified Party, take any and all necessary actions to 
return the License Area or other City Property, as applicable, to the condition existing prior to 
the Release of any such Hazardous Materials on the License Area or other City Property or 
otherwise abate the Release in accordance with all Environmental Laws, except to the extent 
such Release was caused by the negligence or willful misconduct of the City or its Agents.  
Licensee shall afford the City a full opportunity to participate in any discussions with Regulatory 
Agencies regarding any settlement agreement, cleanup or abatement agreement, consent decree 
or other compromise or proceeding involving Hazardous Material.
24.
DEFAULT
24.1.
Events of Default by Licensee
Any of the following will constitute an event of default under this Master License and 
any Wireless Permits issued under it: (1) Licensee fails to pay any License Charge or additional 
fees as and when due if the failure continues for 30 days after notice from the City; (2) Licensee 
fails to perform or comply with any other material obligation or representation made under this 
Master License, if the failure continues for 30 days after the date of notice from the City, or, if 
such default is not capable of cure within the 30- day period, Licensee fails to promptly 
undertake action to cure such default within such 30-day period and thereafter fails to use its best 
efforts to complete such cure within 60 days after the City’s notice; (3) Licensee, except where 
otherwise permitted under this Master License, removes its Equipment or abandons the License 
Area for a continuous period of more than 60 days, such that the License Area is no longer being 
used for the Permitted Use; or (4) any of the following occurs: (i) the appointment of a receiver 
due to Licensee’s insolvency to take possession of all or substantially all of the assets of 
Licensee; (ii) an assignment by Licensee for the benefit of creditors; or (iii) any action taken by 
or against Licensee under any insolvency, bankruptcy, reorganization, moratorium, or other 
debtor relief Laws, if any such receiver, assignment, or action is not released, discharged, 
dismissed, or vacated within 60 days.
59 of 574

--- page 60 ---
Page 24 of 33
39
107770644_2
24.2.
City’s Remedies
In addition to all other rights and remedies available to the City at law or in equity, the 
City will have the following remedies following the occurrence of an event of default by 
Licensee.
24.2.1.
License Continuation
Without prejudice to its right to other remedies, the City may continue this Master 
License and applicable Wireless Permits in effect, with the right to enforce all of its rights and 
remedies, including the right to payment of License Charges, additional fees, and other charges 
as they become due.
24.2.2.
Wireless Permit Termination
If a default specific to one or more Wireless Permits is not cured by Licensee within the 
applicable cure period, the City may terminate each Wireless Permit in default.
24.2.3.
Master License Termination
If Licensee’s default is of such a serious nature in the City’s reasonable judgment that the 
default threatens public health or safety on a majority of the Poles licensed to Licensee, and the 
default or threatened danger to the public is likely to occur again in the future such that the City’s 
Poles are no longer appropriate support structures for the Equipment or the Permitted Use, the 
City may terminate this Master License in whole or in part.  Examples of reasons for termination 
may include, but are not limited to, malfunctions in the City’s streetlights caused by or 
attributable to the Equipment and/or structural damage caused to the Poles such that the Poles 
would need to be replaced to be deemed safe.  Termination of this Master License in whole will 
terminate all Wireless Permits issued under it automatically and without the need for any further 
action by the City. In either case, the City will deliver written notice to Licensee providing 30 
days’ notice of termination and specify the reason or reasons for the termination and whether the 
termination affects the entire Master License or only certain Wireless Permits in the notice. 
Licensee shall remove its Equipment from any affected Pole in compliance with Section 22 
above. The City will have the right to make any terminated portion of the License Area available 
for license to other parties as of the effective date of the termination, even if Licensee’s 
Equipment is still on the Pole.
24.3.
Licensee’s Remedies
Licensee’s sole remedy for the City’s breach or threatened breach of this Master License 
or any Wireless Permit issued under it will be an action for damages, subject to Section 19 
(Limitations on the City’s Liability), and except as otherwise stated in this Master License.
24.4.
Cumulative Rights and Remedies
All rights and remedies under this Master License are cumulative, except as otherwise 
provided.
60 of 574

--- page 61 ---
Page 25 of 33
39
107770644_2
25.
TERMINATION
25.1.
Licensee’s Rights
25.1.1.
Master License and Wireless Permit Termination Rights
Licensee may, in Licensee’s sole discretion, terminate this Master License or any 
Wireless Permit on  90 days’ written notice to the City.  In addition, Licensee may terminate this 
Master License on 30 days’ written notice after any uncured default of this Master License by the 
City, after all applicable cure periods have expired.
25.1.2.
Termination Rights after Pole Replacement
In the event that the City exercises its absolute right to replace or relocate any Pole, the 
City shall make a reasonable effort to provide Licensee with at least 60 days’ notice.  The City’s 
failure to provide at least 60 days’ notice prior to any Pole replacement shall not affect the City’s 
rights under this Master License.  Within 90 days after Licensee receives notice from the City, 
Licensee may elect to either (1) install Licensee’s Equipment on the replacement or relocated 
Pole at Licensee’s sole cost and expense or (2) terminate the applicable Wireless Permit as to the 
replacement or relocated Pole.
25.2.
City’s Absolute Right to Terminate Wireless Permits
The City has the absolute right to terminate any Wireless Permit on 30 days’ written 
notice to Licensee when the City determines, in the City’s sole discretion, that Licensee’s 
continued use of the License Area materially and adversely affects or threatens public health and 
safety, constitutes a nuisance, or materially interferes with the City’s municipal functions.
25.3.
Licensee’s Rights after Termination
In the event that the City terminates any Wireless Permit for reasons unrelated to 
Licensee’s failure to perform its obligations under this Master License, the City shall refund any 
pre-paid Licensee Charge on a pro-rata basis, and Licensee shall not have any further liability for 
the License Charge.  In addition, the City shall prioritize Licensee’s Wireless Permit Application 
for any Wireless Permit to replace the terminated Wireless Permit; provided, however, that (1) 
the City shall prioritize only as many Wireless Permit Applications as Wireless Permits 
terminated by the City and (2) the City’s prioritization will not affect Licensee’s obligations 
under this Master License.
26.
INTERFERENCE
26.1.
Obligation Not to Cause Interference
Licensee will not operate or maintain its Equipment in a manner that interferes with or 
impairs other communication (radio, telephone and other transmission or reception) or computer 
equipment lawfully used by the City or any of its Agents and that existed on the Commencement 
Date of the Wireless Permit associated with the Equipment causing interference.  Such 
interference will be an event of default under this Master License by Licensee, and upon notice 
from the City, Licensee shall be responsible for eliminating such interference promptly and at no 
cost to the City.  Licensee will be required to use its best efforts to remedy and cure such 
61 of 574

--- page 62 ---
Page 26 of 33
39
107770644_2
interference with or impairment of City operations.  If Licensee does not cure the default 
promptly, the parties acknowledge that continuing interference may cause irreparable injury and, 
therefore, the City will have the right to bring an action against Licensee to enjoin such 
interference or to terminate the Wireless Permit where the Equipment is causing interference or 
impairment, at the City’s election.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Master License, 
City agrees that City will use reasonable efforts to install, or allow City Invitees to install, only 
such equipment that is of the type and frequency which will not cause interference to the 
Equipment actually installed by Licensee.  In the event that Licensee discovers any such 
interference caused by the City or a City Invitee, the City shall reasonably cooperate with 
Licensee to identify the source and mitigate the interference; provided, however, that the City’s 
cooperation shall not obligate the City to change, alter or power off any City-owned or controlled 
equipment used for public health and safety or other municipal functions, unless such equipment 
is malfunctioning.  The parties acknowledge that the Licensee possesses technical expertise that 
puts Licensee in the best position to identify and mitigate interference sources, and Licensee 
shall be primarily responsible for identification and mitigation work.
26.2.
Impairment Caused by Change in City Use
Subject to the City’s obligations under of this Master License, if any change in the nature 
of the City’s use of the License Area during the Term results in measurable material adverse 
impairment to Licensee’s normal operation of its Equipment making it necessary to alter the 
Equipment to mitigate the adverse effect, Licensee shall notify the City and provide evidence of 
the claimed impairment.  Upon receipt of such notice, the City will have the right to make its 
own reasonable determination and, if it agrees with Licensee, investigate whether it can 
reasonably and economically mitigate that interference.  The City will provide notice to Licensee 
of the City’s determination within 15 days of receiving Licensee’s notice hereunder.
If the City determines in its reasonable discretion that mitigation is feasible and can be 
achieved for a reasonable cost in the City’s reasonable judgment, the City’s notice will specify 
when the City will mitigate the adverse effect.  The City’s mitigation will effect a cure, and the 
City will not be liable to Licensee in any other way or be required to take any other measures 
with respect to the Equipment.
If the City determines in its reasonable discretion that mitigation is not feasible or cannot 
be achieved for a reasonable cost in the City’s reasonable judgment, Licensee may elect either to: 
(1) terminate the Wireless Permit as to the affected City Pole and receive a ratable reduction in 
the License Charge; or (2) take steps itself at its own cost to mitigate the adverse effect and 
continue to operate the Equipment on the City Pole, and setoff the cost of mitigating the adverse 
effect against the License Charge for the immediately following year under the affected Wireless 
Permit.
Licensee agrees that the City’s temporary and partial abatement or waiver of the License 
Charge under this Section 26.2 will be the only compensation due to Licensee for costs incurred 
or otherwise arising from the adverse effect as liquidated damages fully compensating Licensee 
for all claims that may arise or be related to the adverse effects.  Under no circumstances may the 
City be required to alter its operations at the identified City Pole or provide a replacement City 
Pole to Licensee.
62 of 574

--- page 63 ---
Page 27 of 33
39
107770644_2
26.3.
Impairment Caused by City Access
Licensee agrees that it will not be entitled to any abatement of License Charges if the 
City exercises its rights of access under Section 8.1 (City’s Access to License Areas) unless the 
City’s activities cause Licensee to be unable to operate Equipment on the License Area for its 
permitted use for a period of more than 24 hours, in which case, subject to proof, License 
Charges will be abated ratably for the entire period that Licensee is unable to operate any 
Equipment on any affected City Pole.
27.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
27.1.
Notices
Except as may be specifically provided otherwise in this Master License, all notices, 
demands or other correspondence required to be given under this Master License must written 
and delivered through (1) an established national courier service that maintains delivery records 
and confirmations; (2) hand delivery; or (3) certified or registered U.S.  Mail with prepaid 
postage and return receipt requested, and addressed as follows:
To CITY:
City of San Mateo
Department of Public Works
Attn:  Director of Public Works
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403
(650) 522-7300
To LICENSEE:
ExteNet Systems (Calfornia) LLC
3030 Warrenville Road, Suite 340
Lisle, Illinois 60532
Attn: CFO
With a copy to General Counsel at same address
All notices under this Master License will be deemed to have been delivered: (i) five days 
after deposit if delivered by first class mail; (ii) two days after deposit if delivered by certified 
mail; (iii) the date delivery is made by personal delivery or overnight delivery; or (iv) the date an 
attempt to make delivery fails because a party has failed to provide notice of a change of address 
or refuses to accept delivery.  Telephone, facsimile and email information are provided for 
convenience and for couriers who may require such information, and any notice given solely 
through electronic means will not be deemed to be effective notice.  Any copies required to be 
given constitute an administrative step and not actual notice.  The parties may change the notice 
addresses above from time-to- time through written notice to the addresses above or the then-
current notice address.
27.2.
Waiver; No Implied Waivers
No failure by either party to insist upon the strict performance of any obligation of the 
other under this Master License or to exercise any right, power or remedy arising out of a breach 
thereof, irrespective of the length of time for which such failure continues, will constitute a 
waiver of such breach.  No acceptance by the City or any of its Agents of full or partial payment 
63 of 574

--- page 64 ---
Page 28 of 33
39
107770644_2
of License Charges or additional fees during the continuance of any such breach will constitute a 
waiver of such breach or of the City’s right to demand material compliance with such term, 
covenant or condition, or operate as a waiver of any requirement of this Master License.  No 
express waiver by either party of any default or the performance of any provision hereof will 
affect any other default or performance, or cover any other period of time, other than the default, 
performance or period of time specified in such express waiver.  One or more waivers of a 
default or the performance of any provision hereof by either party will not be deemed to be a 
waiver of a subsequent default or performance.  The City’s consent given in any instance under 
the terms of this Master License will not relieve Licensee of any obligation to secure the City’s 
consent in any other or future instance under the terms of this Master License.
27.3.
Amendments
No part of this Master License (including all Wireless Permits) may be changed, waived, 
discharged or terminated orally, nor may any breach thereof be waived, altered or modified, 
except by a written instrument signed by both parties.
27.4.
Interpretation
The following rules of interpretation apply to this Master License.
27.4.1.
General
Whenever required by the context, the singular includes the plural and vice versa; the 
masculine gender includes the feminine or neuter genders and vice versa; and defined terms 
encompass all correlating forms of the terms (e.g., the definition of “indemnify” applies to 
“indemnity,” “indemnification,” etc.).
27.4.2.
Joint and Several Liability
In the event that the City provides consent, which the City may withhold for any or no 
reason, to enter into this Master License with more than one Licensee, the obligations and 
liabilities under this Master License imposed on Licensee will be joint and several among them.
27.4.3.
Captions
The captions preceding the sections of this Master License and in the table of contents, if 
any, have been inserted for convenience of reference and such captions in no way define or limit 
the scope or intent of any provision of this Master License.
27.4.4.
City Actions
All approvals, consents or other determinations permitted or required by the City under 
this Master License will be made by or through the Public Works Director or his or her designee, 
unless otherwise provided in this Master License or by the City Charter or any City ordinance.
27.4.5.
Words of Inclusion
The use of the term “including,” “such as,” or words of similar import when following 
any general or specific term, statement or matter may not be construed to limit the term, 
64 of 574

--- page 65 ---
Page 29 of 33
39
107770644_2
statement or matter to the stated terms, statements or matters, whether or not language of non-
limitation, such as “including, but not limited to” and “including without limitation” are used.  
Rather, the stated term, statement or matter will be interpreted to refer to all other items or 
matters that could reasonably fall within the broadest scope of the term, statement or matter.
27.4.6.
Laws
References to all “Laws,” including specific statutes, relating to the rights and obligations 
of either party mean the Laws in effect on the Effective Date and as they are amended, replaced, 
supplemented, clarified, corrected or superseded at any time while any obligations under this 
Master License or any Wireless Permit are outstanding, whether or not foreseen or contemplated 
by the parties. Licensee shall comply with all Laws with respect to Licensee’s Permitted 
Use.  This Master License does not limit any rights Licensee may have in accordance with Laws 
to install its own poles in the right of way or to attach Licensee’s equipment to third-party poles 
located in the right of way. This Master License shall in no way limit or waive either party’s 
present or future rights under Laws. If, after the date of this Master License, the rights or 
obligations of either Party are materially preempted or superseded by changes in Laws, the 
parties agree to amend the Master License to reflect the change in Laws.
27.5.
Successors and Assigns
The terms, covenants and conditions contained in this Master License bind and inure to 
the benefit of the City and Licensee and, except as otherwise provided herein, their successors 
and assigns.
27.6.
Brokers
Neither party has had any contact or dealings regarding the license of the License Area, 
or any communication in connection therewith, through any licensed real estate broker or other 
person who could claim a right to a commission or finder’s fee in connection with the license 
contemplated herein (“Broker”), whose commission, if any is due, is to be paid pursuant to a 
separate written agreement between such Broker and the party through which such Broker 
contracted.  In the event that any Broker claiming to be retained by Licensee perfects a claim for 
a commission or finder’s fee based upon any such contact, dealings or communication, Licensee 
shall indemnify the City from all Claims brought by the Broker.  This Section 27.6 will survive 
expiration or earlier termination of this Master License.
27.7.
Severability
If any provision of this Master License or the application thereof to any person, entity or 
circumstance is invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Master License, or the application 
of such provision to persons, entities or circumstances other than those as to which it is invalid or 
unenforceable, will not be affected thereby, and each provision of this Master License will be 
valid and be enforced to the full extent permitted by Law. If any provision in this Master License 
is found to be invalid, illegal or otherwise unenforceable, the parties shall negotiate in good faith 
to modify this Master License so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as 
possible in a mutually acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated hereby be 
consummated as originally intended by the parties.
65 of 574

--- page 66 ---
Page 30 of 33
39
107770644_2
27.8.
Governing Law; Venue
This Master License must be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the 
State of California.  This Master License is made, entered and will be performed in the City of 
San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California.  Any action concerning this Master 
License must be brought and heard in Superior Court for the County of San Mateo.
27.9.
Time for Performance
Provisions in this Master License relating to number of days mean calendar days, unless 
otherwise specified.  “Business day” means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or a bank or 
City holiday.  If the last day of any period to give notice, reply to a notice, or to undertake any 
other action occurs on a day that is not a business day, then the last day for undertaking the 
action or giving or replying to the notice will be the next succeeding business day.  Time is of the 
essence with respect to all provisions of this Master License in which a definite time for 
performance is specified.
27.10. Survival
Expiration or earlier termination of this Master License will not affect the right of either 
party to enforce any and all indemnities and representations and warranties given or made to the 
other party under this Master License, or any provision of this Master License that expressly 
survives termination.
27.11. Recording
Licensee acknowledges and agrees that Licensee shall not have the right to record this 
Master License, any Wireless Permit or any memorandum or short form of any of them in the 
Official Records of the County of San Mateo.
27.12. Intentionally Omitted.
27.13. Attachments and Exhibits. 
All attachments and exhibits to this Master License are hereby made a part hereof as if 
fully set out herein.
27.14. Approval Authority
Each person signing this Master License and any Wireless Permit on behalf of the City 
and Licensee, respectively, warrants and represents that: (i) he or she has the full right, power 
and capacity to act on behalf of the City and Licensee, respectively, and has the authority to bind 
the City and Licensee, respectively, to the performance of its obligations under those agreements 
without the subsequent approval or consent of any other person or entity; (ii) each of the City 
and Licensee, respectively, is a duly authorized and existing entity; (iii) Licensee is qualified to 
do business in California; and each of the City and Licensee, respectively, has full right and 
authority to enter into this Master License and Wireless Permits.  
[END OF MASTER LICENSE — SIGNATURES APPEAR ON NEXT PAGE]
66 of 574

--- page 67 ---
Page 31 of 33
39
107770644_2
67 of 574

--- page 68 ---
Page 32 of 33
39
107770644_2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and GTE Mobilnet of California Limited 
Partnership, dba Verizon Wireless have caused this Master License to be executed as of the 
Effective Date by their duly authorized representatives, and hereto have accepted the terms, 
conditions, and provisions set forth above.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
LICENSEE
ExteNet Systems (California) LLC
By: 
Drew Corbett 
Richard J Coyle
City Manager  
 
COO
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Caio Arellano  
Assistant City Attorney
68 of 574

--- page 69 ---
Page 33 of 33
39
107770644_2
EXHIBIT A
Insurance Requirements for Licensees
Licensee shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract insurance against claims for 
injuries to persons or damages to property which may arise from or in connection with the 
Licensee’s operation and use of the leased premises.  The cost of such insurance shall be borne 
by the Licensee.
SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1.
Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office Form CG 00 
01 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed 
operations, property damage, bodily injury and personal & advertising injury with 
limits  of $2,000,000 per occurrence and $4,000,000 general aggregate.  If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply 
separately to this project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general 
aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2.
Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with 
Statutory Limits, and Employer’s Liability Insurance with limits of no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease/disease per employee/policy 
limit-disease.  (This applies to Licensees with employees).
3.
Property insurance against all risks of loss to any tenant improvements or betterments, 
at full replacement cost with no coinsurance penalty provision.
Other Insurance Provisions:
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional 
insureds as their interests may appear under this Master License on the CGL policy with respect 
to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the Licensee including 
materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations.  
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the Licensee’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance coverage as respects the City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers.  Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its officers, officials, employees, or 
volunteers shall be excess of the Licensee’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
69 of 574

--- page 70 ---
Page 34 of 33
39
107770644_2
Notice of Cancellation
Upon notice from Licensee’s insurers, Licensee shall use commercially reasonable efforts to 
provide thirty (30) days advance written notice to City of cancellation or non-renewal.
Waiver of Subrogation
Licensee hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
Licensee may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any worker’s compensation or 
employer’s liability loss under such insurance.  Licensee agrees to obtain any endorsement that 
may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of 
whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer.
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current 
A.M.  Best’s rating of no less than A-: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City.
Self-Insured Retentions
Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City.  At the option of the City, 
either:  the Licensee shall obtain coverage to reduce or eliminate such self-insured retentions as 
respects the City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; or the Licensee shall provide 
a financial guarantee satisfactory to the City guaranteeing payment of losses and related 
investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses.  
Verification of Coverage
Licensee shall furnish the City with original Certificates of Insurance to City before work begins.  
However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive 
the Licensee’s obligation to provide them. We strongly recommend obtaining a copy of the 
policy declarations and endorsement page (make this a requirement in your Contract) to facilitate 
verification of coverages and spot any undesirable policy limitations or exclusions
Special Risks or Circumstances
The limits of liability may be increased or decreased by mutual consent of the parties, which 
consent will not be unreasonably withheld by either party, in the event of any factors or 
occurrences, including substantial increases in the level of jury verdicts or judgments or the 
passage of state, federal, or other governmental compensation plans, or laws that would 
materially increase or decrease City’s exposure to risk.
70 of 574

--- page 71 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-2931
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
May 04, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Public Works Backhoe Purchase – Contract
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing to approve a contract with Sonsray Machinery for the purchase of 
one CASE 580SN backhoe in the amount of $137,259.09; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract 
in substantially the form presented. 
BACKGROUND:
The Public Works Department utilizes two backhoes to perform a variety of projects and general maintenance.  One of the 
backhoes has reached end of its service life.  That backhoe sustained a critical failure that could not be reasonably repaired 
and a replacement backhoe is needed.   
Products from several manufacturers were evaluated as a replacement including CASE, CAT, Kabota, and John Deere.  Staff 
determined CASE is the most appropriate based on experience with this equipment and its capabilities. The current and 
previous backhoes are manufactured by CASE. Staff determined the CASE 580SN, with options as specified in the attached 
agreement, meets the needs of the department.
For specialized equipment such as backhoes, there are limited procurement sources available to government agencies, and 
those typically are limited to contracts with either Sourcewell (formerly NJPA) or State of California General Services 
Division (GSD).  The State GSD does not maintain a contract for purchasing CASE backhoes.  
Staff identified two CASE dealers in Northern California and, instead of conducting a separate public bidding process, 
requested pricing from these two CASE dealers: Sonsray Machinery via its Sourcewell contract and Sequoia Equipment of 
Fresno. Sourcewell (formerly NJPA) conducted its own competitive bid processes to select a vehicle vendor for use by 
member agencies.  
Sonsray Machinery of San Leandro submitted a quote of $137,259.09 via their Sourcewell contract.  Sequoia Equipment of 
Fresno submitted a quote of $142,858.47.  Staff recommends purchase of the CASE 580SN from Sonsray Machinery and, in 
accordance with Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3), requests that City Council approve the alternative purchasing 
procedure of using Sourcewell pricing and obtaining an additional quote  as being in the best interest of the City, because 
Sourcewell conducted a competitive bid process and staff is assured that the Sourcewell price is the lowest price available.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funding is available in the Vehicle Replacement Fund (Fund 81).
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
71 of 574

--- page 72 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
In accordance with CEQA guidelines section 15378 (b)(5), this equipment purchase is an administrative activity that will not 
impact the environment and is therefore not a project  subject to CEQA.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Contract
STAFF CONTACT
David Fink, Facilities and Fleet Services Manager 
dfink@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7360
72 of 574

--- page 73 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2020) 
APPROVING AGREEMENT FOR PURCHASE OF CASE 580SN BACKHOE AUTHORIZING THE USE OF 
SOURCEWELL (FORMALLY NJPA) PRICING QUOTE FOR THE PURCHASE
 
WHEREAS, the City Council is being asked to award a contract for the purchase of one (1) CASE 580SN 
backhoe in the amount of $137,259.09; and 
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.030 generally requires competitive bidding for 
contacts of $100,000 or more; and 
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to approve 
alternative purchasing procedures when it is in the best interest of the City; and
 
WHEREAS, use of Sourcewell – NJPA Contract #032119 offers best pricing for the CASE 580SN backhoe 
from Sonsray Machinery; and
WHEREAS, the one (1) CASE 580SN backhoe with the specifications and capabilities meet the 
requirements of the City; and
WHEREAS, based on these circumstances, staff recommends the purchase of one CASE 580SN backhoe 
in the best interest of the City without standard competitive bid practice; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with CEQA guidelines section 15378 (b)(5), this equipment purchase is an 
administrative activity that will not impact the environment and is therefore not a project subject to CEQA;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that: 
1.
The calling for bids for the CASE 580SN backhoe with Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) for these 
reasons.
a.
CASE is the company that produces a backhoe in the work class required that meets the City’s 
requirements.
b.
The city has obtained best price for the one (1) CASE 580SN backhoe with Sourcewell – NJPA 
Contract #032119 pricing from Sonsray Machinery.
2.
The procedure utilized by staff of obtaining Sourcewell – NJPA Contract #032119 with Sonsray 
Machinery pricing for one (1) CASE 580SN backhoe is approved in accordance with Municipal Code 
Section 3.60.070(h)(3)
73 of 574

--- page 74 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 1 of 6
Rev 9/17
PURCHASE CONTRACT FOR ONE (1) NEW CASE 540SN BACKHOE
FROM SONSRAY MACHINERY
This Purchase Contract (“Contract”), made and entered into this day of ___________________, 
by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State 
of California (“CITY”), and SONSRAY MACHINERY, a limited liability company (“VENDOR”).
RECITALS:
A.
CITY desires to purchase a certain a CASE 540SN Backhoe hereinafter described.
B.
CITY desires to engage VENDOR to provide this CASE 540SN Backhoe by reason of its 
qualifications and experience and VENDOR has offered to provide the required goods on the terms and 
in the manner set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - PURCHASE
The goods to be purchased from VENDOR under this Contract are described in Exhibit A to this 
Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 - PRICE AND TAXES
All prices, for an amount not to exceed $137,259.09, shall be as stated in this Contract 
and are firm and not subject to escalation.  This purchase is subject to all California sales tax.  
Municipalities are exempt from federal excise and transportation taxes.  Prices shall exclude these 
taxes.  
SECTION 3 - PAYMENT
Unless otherwise agreed in writing, payment terms shall be net thirty (30) days from date of 
receipt of invoice or acceptance of goods, whichever occurs last.  Invoices must cite the purchase order 
number to prevent delay in payment.  All invoices must be mailed to City of San Mateo, Attn:  Accounts 
Payable, 330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403.
74 of 574

--- page 75 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 2 of 6
Rev 9/17
SECTION 4 - DELIVERY AND PERFORMANCE
Time is of the essence in the performance of this Contract.  If delivery of goods cannot be made 
at the specified time, VENDOR shall promptly notify the CITY of the earliest possible date for delivery.  
Notwithstanding such notice, if VENDOR for any reason fails to deliver goods within the time specified 
or to the CITY’s satisfaction the CITY may terminate this Contract or any part thereof without liability 
except for goods previously provided and accepted.  The CITY’s receipt or acceptance of all or part of a 
non-conforming delivery shall not constitute a waiver of any claim, right or remedy the CITY has under 
this Contract or applicable law. 
SECTION 5 - SHIPMENT AND INSPECTION
VENDOR assumes full responsibility for all transportation, transportation scheduling, packing, 
handling, insurance, and other services associated with delivery of all products.  No charges for 
transportation containers, packing, etc., will be allowed the vendor unless so specified in this Contract.  
All shipments shall be F.O. B. 1961 Pacific Boulevard, San Mateo, CA 94403.  Transportation charges 
shall be shown as a separate item on the invoice.
The CITY may revise shipping instructions as to any goods not as yet shipped.  The CITY shall 
have the right to inspect any or all of the goods at VENDOR’s place of business or upon receipt by the 
CITY.  By reason of its failure to inspect the goods, the CITY shall not be deemed to have accepted any 
defective goods or goods which do not conform to the specifications provided or to have waived any of 
the CITY’s rights or remedies arising by virtue of such defects or non-conformance.  VENDOR shall be 
responsible for payment of shipping for the return of any defective goods.  Shipping documents and 
invoices must cite the Purchase Order number.
SECTION 6 - WARRANTIES
In addition to any other expressed or implied warranties and unless otherwise agreed in 
writing, VENDOR warrants that all products delivered hereunder will be new, suitable for use as 
described, of the grade and quality specified, free from all defects in design, material and 
workmanship; in conformity with all samples, drawings, descriptions and specifications furnished; in 
compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and free of any liens and 
encumbrances.  These warranties shall not be deemed to exclude VENDOR’s standard warranties or 
other rights or warranties which the CITY may have or obtain.
SECTION 7 - INDEMNITY
VENDOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of VENDOR’s performance of this Contract, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  VENDOR agrees to defend CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents against any such claims.
75 of 574

--- page 76 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 3 of 6
Rev 9/17
SECTION 8 - TERMINATION
This Contract may be terminated by mutual consent of both parties or by the CITY at its 
discretion.  The CITY may cancel an order for goods at any time with written notice to VENDOR, stating 
the extent and effective date of termination.  Upon receipt of this written notice, VENDOR shall stop 
performance under this Contract as directed by the CITY.  If the Contract is terminated, VENDOR shall 
be paid in accordance with the terms of the Contract for goods delivered and accepted.
SECTION 9 - REMEDIES
In the event of VENDOR’s breach of this Contract, City may take any or all of the following 
actions, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to the City by law:  (a) require 
Vendor to repair or replace such goods, and upon VENDOR’s failure or refusal to do so, repair or 
replace the same at VENDOR’s expense; (b) reject any shipment or delivery containing defective or 
nonconforming goods and return for credit or replacement at VENDOR’s option, said return to be 
made at VENDOR’s cost and risk; (c) cancel any outstanding deliveries and treat such breach by 
VENDOR as VENDOR’s repudiation of this contract.  In the event of the CITY’s breach hereunder, 
VENDOR’s exclusive remedy shall be VENDOR’s recovery of the goods or the purchase price payable for 
goods shipped prior to such breach.
SECTION 10 - COMPLIANCE WITH LAW
VENDOR warrants that it will comply with all federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, rules 
and regulations applicable to its performance under this Contract.  VENDOR shall obtain and maintain 
throughout the life of the Contract all permits or licenses required in connection with the manufacture, 
sale, and shipment of the products ordered under this Contract.  
SECTION 11 - ASSIGNMENT
VENDOR shall not delegate or subcontract any duties and services or assign any rights or claims 
under this Contract without the CITY’s prior written consent.
SECTION 12 - ARTWORK, DESIGNS, PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS AND TRADEMARKS
VENDOR hereby agrees that the sale, use or incorporation into manufactured products of all 
machines, software, hardware, materials and other devices furnished under this Contract are free and 
clear of infringement of any valid patent, copyright, or trademark.  VENDOR shall hold the CITY 
harmless from any and all costs and expenses, including attorney fees, liability, and loss of any kind 
growing out of claims, suits or actions alleging such infringement, and VENDOR agrees to defend such 
claims, suits or actions.
76 of 574

--- page 77 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 4 of 6
Rev 9/17
SECTION 13 - GOVERNING LAW
This Purchase Order and the contract between the parties evidenced hereby or attached 
thereto shall be deemed to be made in the State of California and shall in all respects be construed and 
governed by the laws of that state.
SECTION 14 - VENUE
In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.  
SECTION 15 - WAIVER
The waiver of any term, condition or provision hereof shall not be construed to be a waiver of 
any other such term, condition or provision, nor shall such waiver be deemed a waiver of a subsequent 
breach of the same term, condition or provision.
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in an amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and in total amount not 
exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any 
action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Contract.  The above $5000 limit is the total of 
attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of 
the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It is the intent of this provision that neither party 
shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to 
enforce the provisions of this Contract.
SECTION 17 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Contract, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the California State Board 
of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a 
"blindfolded" process.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
SECTION 18 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
77 of 574

--- page 78 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 5 of 6
Rev 9/17
To CITY:
David Fink
City of San Mateo
1961 Pacific Blvd.
San Mateo, CA, 94403
To VENDOR:
Sonsray Machinery
Attn:  James Rydman
1450 Doolittle Drive
San Leandro, CA, 94621
SECTION 19 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and VENDOR and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and VENDOR.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and SONSRAY MACHINERY, LLC, have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
SONSRAY MACHINERY, LLC
Brad B. Underwood
Public Works Director
Name________________________________
Title 
_________________________________
Its Authorized Agent
APPROVED AS TO FORM
____________________________
Gabrielle Whelan
Assistant City Attorney
78 of 574

--- page 79 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 6 of 6
Rev 9/17
EXHIBIT A
Vendor Quotation
79 of 574

--- page 80 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-2826
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
May 4, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Clean Water Program Construction Monitoring Services - Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a professional services agreement with Terraphase Engineering, Inc. for construction monitoring support services 
for the Clean Water Program’s Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and Expansion Project and Underground Flow 
Equalization System Project, in amount not-to-exceed $588,330; establish a contingency of $50,000; and authorize the 
Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the 
contingency amount .
BACKGROUND:
The Clean Water Program includes improvements to wastewater system capacity, flow management, and inflow and 
infiltration reduction to comply with regulatory requirements. The two largest construction projects in the Clean Water 
Program are the Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and Expansion (WWTP Project) and the Underground Flow 
Equalization System (UFES Project). These projects require various forms of monitoring to ensure the environmental 
impacts associated with construction activity are mitigated to the extent feasible. Depending on the project, monitoring 
may include noise, dust, vibration, and groundwater monitoring. Monitoring activity, specifically for noise and dust levels, 
require specialized consultant services, while the other monitoring efforts will be completed by the construction 
contractor or construction management teams. 
Staff issued a Request for Proposals on February 23, 2020 for construction monitoring support services for the WWTP and 
UFES projects. Two firms (Terraphase Engineering, Inc. and Wilson Irhig) submitted proposals on March 16, 2020. Staff 
evaluated the proposals based on project approach, team and firm experience, team qualifications, references, and quality 
of proposal. Following the proposal review, staff determined Terraphase Engineering, Inc. is best qualified to provide on-
site construction monitoring support services for the Clean Water Program. Firm selection is consistent with Municipal 
Code 3.60.040(c) for professional services. 
This agreement, with a not-to-exceed budget of $588,330, includes noise monitoring services for the WWTP Project and 
noise and dust monitoring services for the UFES Project to ensure compliance with project thresholds. In addition, staff 
recommends establishing a contingency of $50,000 for any additional monitoring and reporting needs that may arise 
throughout construction. Staff believes this to be a reasonable budget for the potential scope of work and expertise 
required and recommends the award of agreement to Terraphase Engineering, Inc. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
This agreement in the amount of $588,330, and a contingency amount of $50,000, will be funded from two Clean Water 
Program project accounts: Basins 2 and 3 Collection System Improvements Project (46S003) and WWTP Upgrade and 
Expansion Project (46T003). There are sufficient funds available in each project to fund this agreement.
80 of 574

--- page 81 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
WWTP Project
The City prepared a Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) in accordance with the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (SCH No. 2015032006). The PEIR was certified by Council on June 6, 2016. In accordance 
with CEQA, the Final PEIR serves as the primary environmental compliance document for implementation of the Clean 
Water Program. The City prepared Addenda to the Final PEIR that were approved on July 16, 2018 (Addendum 1) and April 
15, 2019 (Addendum 2). This work is within the scope of the project evaluated in the PEIR and Addendum. 
UFES Project
The City prepared a Final Environmental Impact Report (SCH No. 2018092013) for the UFES project. The Final EIR was 
certified by City Council on October 21, 2019. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement 
STAFF CONTACT
Deryk Daquigan, Engineering Manager 
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7287 
Azalea Mitch, Deputy Director 
amitch@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7309
81 of 574

--- page 82 ---
1 
 
AGREEMENT WITH TERRAPHASE ENGINEERING 
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
FOR 
CLEAN WATER PROGRAM CONSTRUCTION MONITORING SERVICES 
 
 
This agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, 
hereinafter referred to as "CITY", and Terraphase Engineering, a Corporation with offices at 1404 
Franklin Street, Suite 600, Oakland, CA 94612 hereinafter referred to as "CONSULTANT": 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
 
A. 
CITY desires certain professional services hereinafter described. 
 
 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these professional services by 
reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT has offered 
to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF PROJECT 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is described in 
Exhibit A, Scope of Services, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 3 - PROJECT COORDINATION/STAFFING 
 
3.1 
CITY 
 
BRAD B. UNDERWOOD, PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR, will be the representative of CITY for all 
purposes under this Agreement.  Alex Price is hereby designated as the PROJECT MANAGER and shall 
supervise the day to day progress and execution of this Agreement. 
 
3.2 
CONSULTANT 
 
CONSULTANT's services are unique and personal.  CONSULTANT shall not assign or transfer its 
interest or obligation under this Agreement without the CITY's written consent.  CONSULTANT shall not 
subcontract its duties under this Agreement without the CITY's written consent. 
82 of 574

--- page 83 ---
2 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall assign a single PROJECT DIRECTOR to have overall responsibility for the 
progress and execution of this Agreement for CONSULTANT.  Arnab Chakrabati is hereby designated as 
the PROJECT DIRECTOR for CONSULTANT. 
 
CONSULTANT shall assign a PROJECT COORDINATOR to represent CONSULTANT during the day-
to-day work on the Project.  Jennifer Repa is hereby designated as the PROJECT COORDINATOR for 
CONSULTANT. 
 
CONSULTANT shall assign additional key personnel as follows: 
 
 
 
Nicole Tandel – Field Team Lead 
 
 
William Maddux (Rincon) – Noise Monitoring Technical Lead 
 
 
________________________________ 
 
In addition, CONSULTANT is specifically authorized to subcontract with the following 
sub-consulting firms to assist in providing the services required by this Agreement: 
 
 
 
Rincon Consultants, Inc. 
 
 
________________________________ 
 
 
________________________________ 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all sub-consultants necessary for 
performance of the CONSULTANT’s scope of work.  CONSULTANT shall manage, evaluate, and 
incorporate sub-consultants work into the project as necessary.  CONSULTANT agrees to comply with 
the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the 
state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price Index escalator. 
 
All work on this project shall be accomplished by the above named CONSULTANT's personnel 
and sub-consultants.  CONSULTANT shall not substitute personnel or sub-consultants without the 
CITY's written consent. 
 
SECTION 4 - INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 5 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
 
CONSULTANT's services shall be furnished as described below and as more particularly 
described in Exhibit A, Scope of Services.  Any changes in the Scope of Services must be approved in 
advance, in writing, by the Public Works Director. 
 
83 of 574

--- page 84 ---
3 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all studies, reports, designs, drawings, specifications, and other items furnished by 
CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without additional compensation, correct or 
revise any errors or deficiencies in its studies, reports, designs, drawings, specifications, and other 
items. 
 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
All documents, drawings and specifications relating the project prepared by CONSULTANT or 
CONSULTANT’s approved sub-consultants shall be approved, signed, and sealed by professional 
engineers duly registered in the State of California for each required discipline.  The Contract 
Documents prepared by CONSULTANT shall provide for a completed project that conforms to all 
applicable national, state and local construction codes and ordinances, building, fire, electrical, 
plumbing and occupancy codes and standards. 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT.  No sub-consultant of CONSULTANT will be recognized by CITY as such; 
rather, all sub-consultants are deemed to be the agents of CONSULTANT, and CONSULTANT agrees to 
be responsible for their performance.  CONSULTANT shall give its personal attention to the fulfillment 
of the provisions of this Agreement by all of its employees and sub-consultants, if any, and shall keep 
the work under its control.  If any employee or sub-consultant of CONSULTANT fails or refuses to carry 
out the provisions of this Agreement or appears to be incompetent or to act in a disorderly or 
improper manner, he or she shall be discharged immediately from the work under this Agreement on 
demand of CITY. 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
 
CONSULTANT shall furnish CITY with every reasonable opportunity for CITY to ascertain that the 
services of CONSULTANT are being performed in accordance with the requirement and intentions of 
this Agreement. 
 
CONSULTANT and his subconsultants shall comply with State’s Prevailing Wage Laws.  
 
CONSULTANT or subconsultants shall not be qualified to bid on, be listed in a bid proposal, or 
engage in the performance of any contract for public work unless currently registered and qualified to 
perform public work pursuant to Section 1725.5 of the Labor Code.  For the work performed for the 
City, the CONSULTANT and his subconsultants shall pay the workers at the prevailing wage rate as 
determined by the California Department of Industrial Relations, for this locality.  This project is subject 
to compliance monitoring and enforcement by the Department of Industrial Relations. 
 
84 of 574

--- page 85 ---
4 
 
SECTION 6 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
CITY shall examine all documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions 
pertaining thereto promptly to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT'S work. 
 
SECTION 7 - TERM, PROGRESS AND COMPLETION 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence and be completed within 
three (3) years from the City issued Notice to Proceed.  
 
It is understood and agreed that time is of the essence of this Agreement.   
 
CITY agrees to exercise due diligence in performing its tasks to implement the CONSULTANT's 
timetable. 
 
SECTION 8 - PAYMENT 
 
Payment shall be made by the CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a 
payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the 
full performances of the services and any reimbursable expenses set forth in this Agreement, CITY 
agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee based on verified time and materials not to exceed $588,330.  
Requests for payments shall be itemized and correspond to the various items of work described in 
Exhibit A and shall be based on the rate and cost schedule set forth in Exhibit B. 
 
CITY reserves the right to pay CONSULTANT not more than 95% of the "not to exceed" amount 
until a 100% project review is complete and the CITY determines that 100% of the project work is 
complete.  100% project completion shall include completion of Tasks 1 through 3 as listed in Exhibit A. 
 
Payment for extra work or changes in the work will not be made unless for work authorized in 
advance in writing by the PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.  Prior to commencing such extra work or changes, 
CONSULTANT and CITY shall agree upon an estimated not-to-exceed cost for such extra work.  In no 
event shall CONSULTANT be paid for additional work that is necessary because of CONSULTANT's 
errors or oversights. 
 
CONSULTANT shall maintain complete and accurate records as to the number of hours worked 
by persons and the direct costs incurred during each phase under this Agreement.  All such records 
shall be maintained on a generally accepted accounting basis and shall be clearly identified and readily 
accessible.  CONSULTANT shall provide free access to such books and records to the CITY at all times, 
shall permit the CITY to examine and audit those books and records, shall permit the CITY to make 
copies of those books and records, and shall permit the CITY to inspect all work data, documents, 
proceedings, and activities related to this Agreement for a period of three (3) years from the date of 
final payment under this Agreement.  All accounting records shall provide an understandable 
breakdown of costs charged to this Agreement.  All records encompassed by this subparagraph, as well 
as supporting documentation, shall be kept separate from other CONSULTANT documents and records 
85 of 574

--- page 86 ---
5 
 
and shall be maintained by CONSULTANT for three (3) years after CONSULTANT's receipt of final 
payment under this Agreement. 
 
CONSULTANT shall bill the CITY within thirty (30) days for all compensable activity on the 
project. 
 
CITY shall pay CONSULTANT within thirty (30) days of receipt of billings.  If CITY disagrees with 
any portion of a billing, the CITY shall promptly notify CONSULTANT of the disagreement, and the CITY 
and the CONSULTANT shall attempt to resolve the disagreement.  CITY's payment of any amounts shall 
not constitute a waiver of any disagreement. 
 
SECTION 9 - CHANGES IN WORK 
 
CITY may order changes in scope or character of work, either decreasing or increasing the 
amount of CONSULTANT's services by amending this Agreement.  In the event that such changes are 
ordered, CONSULTANT shall be entitled to full compensation for all work performed prior to receipt of 
notice of change.  In no event shall CITY be liable for payment unless the amount of such extra 
compensation shall first have been agreed to in writing by CITY. 
 
In the event that changes are ordered pursuant to this section, the schedule for progress and 
completion in Section 7 of this Agreement and compensation in Section 8 of this Agreement shall be 
adjusted by negotiation between CONSULTANT and CITY, subject to approval, if necessary by the San 
Mateo City Council. 
 
SECTION 10 - CONFLICT OF INTEREST 
 
CONSULTANT understands that its professional responsibility is solely to CITY.  CONSULTANT 
covenants that it presently has no interest, and will not acquire any interest, direct or indirect, financial 
or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the performance of the services 
under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall not knowingly, and shall take reasonable steps to ensure 
that, it does not employ a person having such an interest in the performance of this Agreement.  If 
after employment of a person, CONSULTANT discovers that it has employed a person with a direct or 
indirect interest that would conflict with its performance of this Agreement, CONSULTANT shall 
promptly sever the employment relationship. 
 
SECTION 11 - TERMINATION 
 
 
 
A. 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by 
law, CITY may, by ten days written notice to CONSULTANT, terminate this Agreement in whole or in 
part at any time, either for CITY's convenience or because of the failure of CONSULTANT to fulfill its 
agreement obligations.  Upon receipt and within ten days of such notice CONSULTANT shall: 
 
1. 
Immediately discontinue all services affected (unless the notice directs 
otherwise); and 
 
86 of 574

--- page 87 ---
6 
 
2. 
Deliver to CITY all data, documents, reports, estimates, summaries and 
such other information and materials as may have been accumulated by CONSULTANT 
in performing this Agreement, whether completed or in progress. 
 
B. 
If the termination is for the convenience of CITY, CONSULTANT shall be compensated for 
all authorized work performed prior to notification of termination but no amount shall be allowed for 
anticipated profit on unperformed services. 
 
C. 
If, after any notice of termination for failure to fulfill agreement obligations, it is 
determined by a court or other arbitrator that CONSULTANT had not so failed, the termination shall be 
deemed to have been effected for the convenience of CITY.  In such event, adjustment in the 
agreement price shall be made as provided in paragraph (B) of this section. 
 
D. 
CONSULTANT may terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the project upon sixty 
(60) days written notice to CITY, but only in the event of substantial failure of performance by CITY or 
in the event CITY abandons or indefinitely postpones the Project. 
 
E. 
Upon termination of this Agreement or suspension of work on the project by either CITY 
or CONSULTANT, all duties of CITY and CONSULTANT as set forth in Sections 5 and 6 herein above shall 
terminate. 
 
SECTION 12 - STATUS OF REPORTS 
 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of the CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not.  All documents furnished to CONSULTANT by the CITY and all 
reports and supportive data prepared by the CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of this 
Agreement are the CITY's property and shall be delivered to the CITY upon the completion of 
CONSULTANT's services or at the CITY's written request. All reports, information, data, and exhibits 
prepared or assembled by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of its services pursuant to 
this Agreement are confidential until released by the CITY to the public, and the CONSULTANT shall not 
make any of these documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed 
by the CONSULTANT or the CITY without the written consent of the CITY before any such release. 
 
SECTION 13 - INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance as specified in Exhibit C of the 
Agreement. 
 
SECTION 14 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
87 of 574

--- page 88 ---
7 
 
 
SECTION 15 - INDEMNITY 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify City of San Mateo and the Estero 
Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, from 
and against any alleged claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of CONSULTANT’s 
performance of this Agreement, except those claims arising out of CITY’s active negligence or willful 
misconduct. CONSULTANT agrees to defend CITY of San Mateo and the Estero Municipal Improvement 
District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and, against any such claims.  
 
 
SECTION 16 - WAIVERS 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the 
same or of any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of 
any fee or other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any 
preceding breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement 
or of any applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEYS FEES 
 
Attorney fees in an amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and in total amount not 
exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any 
action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of 
attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of 
the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It is the intent of this Agreement that neither party 
shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for attorney’s fees arising out of an action, or actions to 
enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
sub-consultants shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
88 of 574

--- page 89 ---
8 
 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the California State Board 
of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind 
draw. 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY:  
Brad B. Underwood 
Public Works Director  
City of San Mateo  
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403-1388  
  
To CONSULTANT:  
Terraphase Engineering 
Attn:  Arnab Chakrabarti  
1404 Franklin Street, Suite 600  
Oakland, CA 94612  
 
89 of 574

--- page 90 ---
9 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENTS 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT. 
 
SECTION 23 – AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party. 
 
SECTION 24 – SEVERABILITY 
 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 25 - GOVERNING LAW 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California. 
 
SECTION 26 - VENUE 
 
 
In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
 
90 of 574

--- page 91 ---
10 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Terraphase Engineering have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Brad B. Underwood 
Public Works Director 
 
 
 
 
 
William Carson 
Its Authorized Agent 
President 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
Caio Arellano  
Assistant City Attorney 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Rate and Cost Schedule 
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
91 of 574

--- page 92 ---
EXHIBIT A 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
__________________________________________________________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
92 of 574

--- page 93 ---
Proposal Response to Request for Proposals 
Construction Monitoring Services for WWTP and UFES Projects 
Clean Water Program, Public Works Department, City of San Mateo 
Page 2 
Terraphase Engineering Inc. 
1. 
PROJECT APPROACH  
1a. 
Task 1 – General Services 
Terraphase’s approach to Tasks 1.1 (Project Management), 1.2 (Workshops and Meetings), 1.3 (Quality 
Assurance/Quality Control [QA/QC]), and 1.4 (Management of Subconsultants) is provided in the sections below. 
Project Management (Task 1.1) 
The approach for project management also applies to workshops and meetings (Task 1.2) and management of 
subconsultants (Task 1.4). Excellence in project management is core to the overall success of a project and 
essential to completing the project with clearly defined objectives and within budget, on or ahead of schedule. 
Terraphase proposes to manage this project out of our Oakland, California, office. Our project manager, 
Ms. Jennifer Repa, has considerable experience managing real-time environmental compliance data monitoring 
and reporting at high profile sites. She is well-versed in the principles of financial tracking, internal and external 
stakeholder communication, preparing and implementing project execution plans, QA/QC, and identifying and 
managing risks. Three key factors for ensuring consistent implementation of the project are as follows: 
Creation of a Detailed Project Execution Plan (PXP): As part of the project baseline assessment Terraphase will 
work with the City to prepare an effective PXP that identifies all project stakeholders, their roles, their 
constraints, and presents a responsibility matrix; provides a roadmap to meet project objectives and metrics 
along the way that can be tracked; and identifies major project risks as well as a corrective action plan for 
addressing or avoiding those risks. The PXP will be a “living” document that will be modified, as necessary, as the 
project progresses. 
1. Cost Control: In order to forecast potential issues, effective tracking of 
schedule and budget are critical facets. Terraphase will use an array of 
tools, including Earned Value Analysis (EVA) and Critical Path Method 
(CPM) to identify potential change conditions that could affect project 
milestones and implementing corrective actions identified in the PXP 
through the use of decision/corrective action logs. We maintain project 
cost control using our internal project management and cost accounting 
system (Ajera) to track all costs, including subcontractor costs. This system provides project managers with 
real-time updates on project costs and expenses to help track spending and to ensure that the work scope is 
done within budget. Tracking mechanisms will include monthly progress reports provided to the City (see 
example below for the Phase II ESA conducted for the Detroit Drive site WWTP expansion planning project), 
progress meetings throughout the duration of the project (assume 20 for the scope of work in the RFP), and 
attendance of risk management meetings with the City, as needed. Ms. Repa will communicate directly with 
the City’s Project Manager regarding the proposed project and will include Mr. Arnab Chakrabarti during 
attendance of the project kickoff meeting as well as workshops and progress meetings, as needed.  
93 of 574

--- page 94 ---
Proposal Response to Request for Proposals 
Construction Monitoring Services for WWTP and UFES Projects 
Clean Water Program, Public Works Department, City of San Mateo 
 
Terraphase Engineering Inc. 
Page 3 
2. Effective Communication: Communication with internal/external stakeholders and the project team is 
another critical aspect of sound project execution. We will strive to understand the larger project objectives 
including priorities for cost and schedule for the proposed scope of work. Ms. Repa will work closely within 
the project team to ensure that resources are properly allocated, project commitments are met, and 
deliverables are reviewed to ensure that they meet QA/QC Plan requirements. Our Team commits the key 
individuals and team members described further in Section 3c. Furthermore, Ms. Repa will work closely with 
the City Project Manager to identify any issues that require corrective action as soon as they can be 
identified and employ internal project team resources as needed. 
Quality Assurance/Quality Control (Task 1.3) 
Quality control is the procedures used to implement a quality assurance program to control the quality of a final 
product. QC procedures include providing clear direction to technical staff; regular and timely feedback by 
senior technical staff; review of draft and completed work products for accuracy and completeness; approval 
and acceptance of work products by the project manager; and accurate documentation of decisions, 
assumptions, and recommendations that were made along the way to the final deliverable.  
Terraphase will create a project-specific Project QA/QC Plan, which documents the necessary information 
required to effectively manage project quality from project planning to delivery. Project QA/QC Plans define a 
project’s quality policies, procedures, criteria for and areas of application, and roles, responsibilities, and 
authorities. 
The Project QA/QC Plan is created during the planning phase of the project. Its intended audience is the project 
manager, task managers, and staff whose support is needed to carry out the plan. The Project QA/QC Plan will 
be submitted to the City for review and approval. 
1b. 
Task 2 – Project Startup & Equipment Selection 
Project Data and Information Review (Task 2.1) 
Ms. Jennifer Repa will work closely with the City project manager to obtain and quickly review the available 
project information for the WWTP and UFES project sites. Terraphase assumes that all relevant documents can 
be shared via a web portal for quick access and review within the 2-week time frame following the notice to 
proceed. 
Project Kick-Off Meeting and Site Visit (Task 2.2) 
The following Terraphase team members will attend the project kick-off meeting and site visit once a date and 
time are scheduled with the City: Ms. Jennifer Repa, Mr. Arnab Chakrabarti, and Mr. William Maddux. Our team 
will provide and agenda and presentation for City review prior to the meeting and prepare meeting minutes 
following the meeting. 
Monitoring Equipment Selection (Task 2.3) 
Selection of the monitoring equipment is a critical aspect of the project. The selected equipment will need to 
meet the requirements of real-time monitoring with alerts while minimizing repair and calibration issues that 
could lead to downtime. Terraphase has experience with a variety of dust monitors at construction sites that 
require real-time monitoring, data-logging, telemetry with alerts for exceedances of instantaneous and time-
weighted average threshold concentrations, and alarm notifications. A summary of the dust monitors capable of 
measuring down to fine particulate matter (i.e., particles with diameter less than 2.5 microns, PM2.5) at the UFES 
project site, that we have experience with, is provided in the table below. Costs are approximate and can vary 
with spare parts ordered, warranty extensions, and other supplemental items. 
94 of 574

--- page 95 ---
Proposal Response to Request for Proposals 
Construction Monitoring Services for WWTP and UFES Projects 
Clean Water Program, Public Works Department, City of San Mateo 
Page 4 
Terraphase Engineering Inc. 
Dust 
Monitor 
Model 
Telemetry 
Unit 
Particle 
Size 
Detection 
Range 
Advantages 
Disadvantages 
Purchase 
Price 
Warranty/ Tech 
Support 
TSI Dust 
Trak 
8530 
Thiamis/ 
Netronix 
Unit 
PM2.5 
PM10 
• Can pair with the TSI 
sound Pro device & Lufft 
Smart weather sensor 
with one data 
management portal 
• Established dust monitor 
brand 
• Equipment rental 
company can provide 
replacement if system 
needs repair 
• Large setup 
• Daily battery 
changes, less 
frequent with 
solar panels 
• Additional cost 
for equipment 
rental if needs 
repair  
• Temperature 
and humidity 
can affect 
precision 
• $6,500 per 
monitor 
• $1,000 for 
Netronix 
Thiamis 
1000 
telemetry 
unit 
• $80/month 
Environet 
data service 
• Software 
updates  
• Limited 2-
year warranty 
with 
manufacturer 
recommende
d filter 
replacement 
and annual 
factory 
calibration 
Thermo 
Fisher 
Scientific 
ADR-
1500 
Thiamis/ 
Netronix 
Unit 
PM2.5 
PM10 
• Can pair with noise 
monitor and weather 
station using one data 
management portal 
• Established dust monitor 
brand 
• Equipment rental 
company can provide 
replacement if system 
needs repair 
• Smaller 
batteries than 
DustTrak, can 
last 2 days and 
up to 7 with 
solar panel 
• Additional cost 
for equipment 
rental if needs 
repair 
• $8,500 per 
monitor  
•  $1,000 for 
Netronix 
Thiamis 
1000 
telemetry 
unit 
• $80/month 
Environet 
data service 
• Software 
updates  
• Limited 1-
year warranty  
PurpleAir 
Verizon 
Hotspot 
PM2.5 
PM10 
• Low cost, small footprint 
• Temperature and 
humidity have a minimal 
effect on sensor 
precision 
• Dual laser counter 
immediately detects 
drift for calibration 
• No filters; tubing or 
cyclones that can skew 
data, low calibration 
frequency 
• Cannot 
interface with 
established 
web platforms 
(e.g., Netronix) 
• Newer 
technology 
• $350 each 
for the 
PurpleAir 
monitors 
• $250 for 
wireless 
hotspot 
with 
$30/month 
data plan 
• 1-year limited 
warranty 
 
95 of 574

--- page 96 ---
Proposal Response to Request for Proposals 
Construction Monitoring Services for WWTP and UFES Projects 
Clean Water Program, Public Works Department, City of San Mateo 
 
Terraphase Engineering Inc. 
Page 5 
In addition to dust monitoring at the UFES project site, two noise monitors will be placed at both the UFES and 
WWTP project sites. Terraphase team members will be supported by Rincon’s noise expert, Mr. William 
Maddux, with selecting the appropriate noise monitor for use in the field and subsequent operations and 
maintenance (O&M). A summary of noise monitors that conform to the American National Standards 
Institute/International Electrotechnical Commission (ANSI/IEC) Type 1 requirements are provided below: 
Noise Monitor 
Make & Model 
Decibel 
Range 
Advantages 
Disadvantages 
Purchase Price 
Warranty/Tech 
Support 
Sonitus 
EM2030  
A, Flat, and 
1/3 octave 
band 
Range: 16-
121 decibels 
(dBA) 
• IEC Type 1 noise monitor 
web-based reporting, 
cellular internet 
• Alerts by email and SMS 
• Audio Capture 
• 1/3 octave band filter 
option 
• AC power 
Required 
 
• $10,317 
• $1,000 annual 
calibration fee 
• Annual Contract 
for internet 
service after 
first year: $804 
• Phone tech 
support 
limited hours 
• 1-year 
limited 
warranty 
Sonitus 
EM2030P/G 
A, Flat, and 
1/3 octave 
band 
Range: 16-
121 dBA 
• IEC Type 1 noise monitor 
web-based reporting, 
cellular internet 
• Alerts by email and SMS 
portable 
• Audio capture  
• Battery 
powered, 
10-day life 
• No AC 
power 
option 
• $11,660 
• $1,000 annual 
calibration fee 
• Annual Contract 
for internet 
service after 
first year: $804 
• Phone tech 
support, 
limited hours 
• 1-year 
limited 
warranty 
PCB 
Piezotronics/ 
Larson Davis 
NMS045 
A, C, Flat, and 
1/3 octave 
band 
Range: 18 -
140 dBA 
• IEC Type 1 noise monitor 
web-based reporting, 
cellular internet 
• Alerts by email and SMS 
• AC-powered or solar 
• Audio Capture 
• Off-line data access 
• Portable 
• 1/3 octave band filter 
option 
• Can add on weather 
station 
• Higher cost 
• $14,810 
• $1,000 annual 
calibration fee 
for meter 
• Annual Contract 
for internet 
service after 
first year: 
$1,200 
• 24-hour 
technical 
support 
• 1-year 
limited 
warranty 
 
96 of 574

--- page 97 ---
Proposal Response to Request for Proposals 
Construction Monitoring Services for WWTP and UFES Projects 
Clean Water Program, Public Works Department, City of San Mateo 
Page 6 
Terraphase Engineering Inc. 
Finally, a summary of weather stations are provided in the summary table below: 
 
1c. 
Task 3 – Monitoring 
As part of the monitoring task, Ms. Jennifer Repa will work closely with 
Mr. Daren Roth to prepare a site-specific health and safety plan that includes 
job safety analyses (JSA) for hazards associated with project activities. 
Terraphase field team staff will participate in a daily safety tailgate when on-site 
and will adhere to the City’s health and safety requirements.  
Monitoring Equipment Procurement and Installation (Task 3.1) 
In order to facilitate real-time monitoring of dust and noise data, including 
alerts for threshold exceedance, a telemetry unit will be required. Depending 
on the type of dust monitor selected, there are 
options shown in the summary tables included in the Task 2 discussion above. The 
options for integrated telemetry units include established web-based data portals that 
can be accessed by authorized users (e.g., Thiamis 1000™ telemetry unit that operates 
with the Netronix web platform).  
The benefit of integrating “plug-and-play” dust monitor, noise monitor, and telemetry 
components with established connectivity to a web-based data repository is that up-
front integration issues and associated programming costs can be avoided. However, 
these components can have significantly higher costs compared to alternative “stand-
alone” dust (e.g., PurpleAir) and noise monitors that require more effort for initial 
programming and linkage to a custom-built web-based platform.  
 
 
Weather Station 
Make & Model 
Capability 
Advantages 
Disadvantages 
Purchase 
Price 
Warranty/Tech 
Support 
Davis Vantage Vue 
& Weather Link 
Live wireless 
Bundle with 
console, solar 
power and 
mounting pole 
Measures 
wind speed 
and direction, 
temperature, 
and humidity 
• Maintenance free-
operation 
• Data access through 
Weatherlink app or 
weatherlink.com 
• Alerts by email 
• Needs a wi-fi 
connection 
• May not be 
compatible 
with Thiamis 
data logger 
$1,100 
• Technical 
support and 
software 
updates 
• 1-year limited 
warranty 
Lufft WS200-UMB 
Smart Weather 
Sensor 
Measures 
wind speed 
and direction 
• Low-power, heater  
• Maintenance-free 
operation 
• Compatible with 
Thiamis data logger 
• Alerts by email and 
SMS 
 
$1,200 
• Technical 
support and 
software 
updates 
• 1-year limited 
warranty 
PCB 
Piezotronics/Larson 
Davis NMS045 
Measures 
wind speed 
and direction 
• Can be used in 
conjunction with the 
PCB Piezotronics air 
monitor 
• Maintenance free 
operation  
Higher cost 
$1,940 
• Technical 
support and 
software 
updates 
• 1-year limited 
warranty  
97 of 574

--- page 98 ---
Proposal Response to Request for Proposals 
Construction Monitoring Services for WWTP and UFES Projects 
Clean Water Program, Public Works Department, City of San Mateo 
 
Terraphase Engineering Inc. 
Page 7 
Therefore, Terraphase has identified the following preliminary options for monitoring dust and noise at the UFES 
and WWTP project sites: 
Option 1 – Integrated System Components with Existing Web Data-Hosting Platform  
• 
Purchase of two (2) Thermo Scientific MIE ADR-1500 Real-
Time dust monitors for proposed locations at UFES project 
site  
• 
Purchase of four (4) Sonitus EM2030P/G noise monitors, two 
each at the WWTP and UFES project sites 
• 
Purchase of one (1) Lufft WS200-UMB Smart Weather 
Sensor for measuring wind speed and direction at the UFES 
project site 
• 
Purchase of five (5) Netronix Thiamis 1000 telemetry units: 
two units for noise and dust monitors coupled at the UFES 
project site, one for the weather station at the UFES project 
site proposed upwind of the noise and dust monitors, and 
two units for the WWTP project site noise monitors. Each 
telemetry unit would require a monthly data subscription. 
• 
Use of the Environet web-based platform as a data 
repository that includes posting of real-time dust and noise 
monitoring data, custom threshold setpoints and alert 
notification through emails and SMS texts for authorized 
users, graphical user interface for instantaneous and time-
weighted average data. The Environet web platform is 
included as part of the Netronix Thiamis telemetry 
subscription package. 
Option 2 – Modular System with Custom Web Data-Hosting Platform 
• 
Purchase of two (2) PurpleAir dust monitors for proposed locations at UFES project site. PurpleAir has its 
own web-based reporting platform but requires custom-built databases to identify threshold exceedances 
and provide alerts. 
• 
Purchase of four (4) Sonitus EM2030P/G noise monitors, two each at the WWTP and UFES project sites 
• 
Purchase of one (1) Lufft WS200-UMB Smart Weather Sensor for measuring wind speed and direction at the 
UFES project site 
• 
Purchase of five (5) Netronix Thiamis 1000 telemetry units: two units for noise monitors at the UFES project 
site, one for the weather station at the UFES project site proposed upwind of the noise and dust monitors, 
and two units for the WWTP project site noise monitors. Each telemetry unit would require a monthly 
subscription. 
• 
Creation of a custom-web based platform by Terraphase to consolidate the different data streams. 
There is a potential for significant cost savings using the PurpleAir monitors, which have been tested by the 
South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) and demonstrated to have high accuracy in the PM2.5 
range.2 However, the PurpleAir monitors do not have the same compatibility with established web portals (e.g., 
Environet) as other dust monitors. Creation of a custom web portal and ongoing maintenance can be costly; 
therefore, estimated costs for Option 1 are included in the level of effort schedule provided in Attachment B. 
 
2  
Testing center for PurpleAir monitors developed by SCAQMD in 2014, in conjunction with EPA and BAAQMD. 
UFES Project Site 
WWTP Site 
98 of 574

--- page 99 ---
Proposal Response to Request for Proposals 
Construction Monitoring Services for WWTP and UFES Projects 
Clean Water Program, Public Works Department, City of San Mateo 
Page 8 
Terraphase Engineering Inc. 
Our team also recommends construction of a fence enclosure to house the noise 
and dust monitors to prevent theft or damage. The dust monitor itself can be 
placed inside of a Tuff box with an opening for the suction inlet to provide 
additional security and damage protection.  
Ongoing Calibration and Maintenance (Task 3.2) 
Our firm has considerable experience with O&M of dust monitors, including 
routine field calibrations at high-visibility construction sites. Typically, dust and 
noise monitors are calibrated on a weekly basis and more frequently as 
needed. High dust conditions may require more frequent replacement of 
filters and corresponding calibration. Furthermore, most dust monitors, 
with the exception of the PurpleAir dust monitors, usually require a more 
thorough annual calibration by the manufacturer. Calibration in the field 
will be conducted under “clean” conditions with low dust concentrations 
to avoid signal bias that can lead to erroneous negative readings at low 
dust concentrations. As part of equipment purchase and installation, 
Terraphase recommends purchase of solar panels that will reduce the 
frequency of battery changeouts (typically once a week with solar panel 
installed). 
Monitoring Threshold Exceedance Evaluation and Reporting (Task 3.3) 
Terraphase has worked closely with local oversight programs (LOPs) such as the San Francisco Department of 
Public Health to prepare dust control plans (DCP) that ensure any conditions exceeding established corrective 
action thresholds are quickly identified and mitigated through active dust suppression measures. Terraphase has 
worked closely with general contractors and project owners at construction sites to minimize fugitive dust 
emissions by ensuring that standard best management practices (BMPs) are implemented properly. A number of 
these standard BMPs have been identified by the Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD), 
including those referenced in PEIR Mitigation Measure 4-1 (e.g., limiting vehicles speeds of 15 miles per hour on 
unpaved roads, watering of exposed surfaces twice per day, removal of trackout on adjacent public roads using 
a wet sweeper, etc.). Monitoring action level thresholds for the WWTP and UFES projects have been identified 
as follows: 
• 
WWTP Project Site: Noise: 90 average-weighted dBa 
• 
UFES Project Site: Noise: 90 dBa at a distance of 25 feet from construction 
equipment or for any point outside of the property plane of the project, Dust: 
82 pounds per day (lbs/day)  
In addition to a routine weekly inspection, calibration, and O&M, the Terraphase 
Team field staff person will respond to any exceedance of corrective action levels 
as follows (assumed 48 exceedances per the RFP): 
• 
Notification to the City and their stakeholders of any instantaneous or time-
weighted dust action level exceedances, noise level exceedances, or visible 
dust crossing the project site boundary; 
• 
Mobilize to project sites and perform inspection including examining UFES 
project work areas for fugitive dust emissions; 
• 
Inspect monitoring equipment and perform troubleshooting; 
• 
Once system components are operational, complete daily field log; and  
• 
Prepare follow-up weekly report for CWP project manager summarizing 
exceedances, root cause analysis, and corrective measures implemented. 
99 of 574

--- page 100 ---
Proposal Response to Request for Proposals 
Construction Monitoring Services for WWTP and UFES Projects 
Clean Water Program, Public Works Department, City of San Mateo 
 
Terraphase Engineering Inc. 
Page 9 
Data Management (Task 3.4) 
As part of data management, Terraphase team members will complete the following tasks: 
• 
Routine inspection of the web portal to confirm dust and noise monitors are operational 
• 
Weekly data download, QA/QC, and archiving per the QA/QC Plan prepared with the City 
• 
Monthly reporting of data management QA/QC activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Equipment Removal and Transfer to Clean Water Program (Task 3.5)  
Following completion of the proposed period of monitoring, all monitoring equipment, spare parts, 
consumables, and other ancillary equipment will be inventoried, cleaned, and packaged with documentation for 
the City repository. Documentation will include applicable warranties, certifications, and vendor contact 
information. 
 
 
 
100 of 574

--- page 101 ---
EXHIBIT B 
 
RATE AND COST SCHEDULE 
 
Terraphase Engineering Inc. 
 
As of March 16, 2020 
 
Construction Noise and Dust Monitoring Support 
 
Services for City of San Mateo 
 
 
Rate Fee Basis 
 
1. 
Hourly charge basis will consist of the following: 
 
• 
Direct Wages: actual hourly salary for each individual 
 
• 
Fringe Benefits: 46.1% of direct wages (within regional standards) 
 
• 
Overhead: 121.5% of direct wages (within regional standards) 
 
• 
Profit: 12% (12% maximum applies to all Clean Water Program design contracts) 
 
 
2. Hourly billing rates are effective from 3/16/2020 through 3/16/2021. Hourly and unit rates may be 
renegotiated by the Consultant and the City on an annual basis. Requests to revise the hourly and unit 
rates must be made in writing, thirty (30) calendar days prior to the requested changes taking effect. 
Maximum increases shall not exceed an average of 3% per year. 
 
Expenses 
 
1. Technology Charge per direct labor hour= $0/hour for prime consultant's hours only. List what is 
included in Technology Charge (e.g. computer, CADD, network, software, etc.). 
 
2. Bay Area Staff 
 
• 
Personal use vehicles for Project Business and Visits to Sites - Vehicle Mileage (per mile) at Current 
Federal Travel Regulation (FTR). 
 
3. Non-Bay Area Staff 
 
• Travel meals and hotel at Federal GSA per diem rate/day as published on the USGSA website. 
 
• Rental car, airline tickets, and other miscellaneous travel costs at actual cost. Receipts for all costs 
over $25 shall be maintained and submitted with invoices. 
 
4. Subconsultant charges at cost plus 5% markup. 
 
5. Outside printing services at cost, with prior approval. 
 
6. Other direct project related costs at cost, with prior approval. 
 
Other 
 
1. Budget changes, rate increases, and any allocation of contingency dollars shall be approved by City 
Program Manager in advance of incurring any cost. 
101 of 574

--- page 102 ---
RATE SCHEDULE 
 
Terraphase Engineering Inc. 
 
March 16, 2020 through March 16, 2021 
 
Team Member
Raw Labor
Raw Labor
Fringe
Overhead4
Subtotal
Profit
Hourly
Cost1
Cost with
Benefits3
% of direct
%
Billing
1%
% of direct
wages
Rate
Escalation2
wages
Jennifer Repa
$41.95
$42.37
46.14%
121.48%
$137.14
12%
$153.60
Arnab Chakrabarti
$67.31
$67.98
46.14%
121.48%
$220.03
12%
$246.44
Daren Roth
$51.46
$51.97
46.14%
121.48%
$168.21
12%
$188.40
Nicole Tandel
$39.38
$39.77
46.14%
121.48%
$128.72
12%
$144.17
EKela Autry
$26.44
$26.70
46.14%
121.48%
$86.42
12%
$96.79
Molly Coates
$28.13
$28.40
46.14%
121.48%
$91.92
12%
$102.95
Melvin Thrower
$30.00
$30.30
46.14%
121.48%
$98.07
12%
$109.84
Joseph Luchette
$48.08
$48.56
46.14%
121.48%
$157.17
12%
$176.04
Jennifer Diehl
$26.37
$26.63
46.14%
121.48%
$86.19
12%
$96.54
Michael Murphy
$37.72
$38.09
46.14%
121.48%
$123.29
12%
$138.08
 
 
Rincon Consultants, Inc. 
 
March 16, 2020 through March 16, 2021 
 
Team Member
Raw Labor
Raw Labor
Fringe
Overhead4
Subtotal
Profit
Hourly
Cost1
Cost with
Benefits3
% of direct
%
Billing
1%
% of direct
wages
Rate
Escalation2
wages
William Maddux
$56.94
$57.51
66.20%
86.95%
$178.69
12%
$200.13
  
1 Current raw labor rates. 
2 If a contract starts within one (1) quarter from when the Consultant would normally increase their employee 
rates, an increase up to 1% is allowed for all staff working in the first year, to begin at the starting date of the 
contract, and will be frozen until the anniversary of the contract. This will cover anticipated first year salary 
increases. Thereafter, an average maximum 3% increase for all staff working on the project from year 1 will apply. 
 
3 State what is included with fringe benefits here (e.g. vacation, holiday, sick leave, payroll taxes, insurance, etc.) 
 
4 State what is included with overhead here (indirect labor, building and rental expenses, taxes, supplies, 
administrative costs, etc.) 
 
 
102 of 574

--- page 103 ---
103 of 574

--- page 104 ---
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if CONSULTANT 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease.  
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall 
be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
104 of 574

--- page 105 ---
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.   
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.  
 
 
105 of 574

--- page 106 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-2753
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
May 4, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade Construction Services - Amendment 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the agreement with Sundt Construction, Inc. for services to construct the second package of 
the Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and Expansion Project for a Guaranteed Maximum Price of $17,716,049; 
approve a contingency reserve in the amount of $1,645,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the 
amendment in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount. 
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo is currently under a Regional Water Quality Control Board Cease and Desist Order requiring 
improvements to its collection system and Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) to eliminate sanitary sewer overflows 
and unauthorized discharges of untreated or partially treated wastewater to San Francisco Bay. The Clean Water Program 
includes several capital improvement projects that are currently under design and are intended to comply with the Cease 
and Desist Order. Specifically, the WWTP Upgrade and Expansion Project consists of new facilities, including a headworks, 
primary clarifiers, secondary treatment basins, membrane filtration, and a dedicated wet weather treatment train. 
Due to the project’s size and complexity and construction demand in the Bay Area, a Construction Manager at Risk (CMAR) 
delivery approach was selected and approved by City Council on May 16, 2016, in accordance with Section 3.60.070(h) of 
the Municipal Code. City Council approved a professional services agreement with Sundt Construction, Inc. (Sundt) on 
January 17, 2017, to provide CMAR preconstruction services for the project. HDR Engineering (HDR) is the design engineer 
for the project and has collaborated with Sundt throughout the engineering design of the project. 
With the CMAR delivery method, the construction is being executed in three separate construction packages.  The CMAR 
will develop a guaranteed maximum price fee for each package, submitting open book documentation and a not to exceed 
price for construction of the work. The general scope for each construction package is: 

Package 1: Mobilization activities; demolition; site preparation; mass excavation; perimeter shoring; dewatering; 
electrical upgrades; and stormwater management improvements. 

Package 2: Pile installation. 

Package 3: Process facilities including a headworks; primary treatment; biological nutrient removal basins; 
membrane filtration; dedicated wet weather treatment; chemical storage and feed; odor control; and non-process 
facilities including an administration building and maintenance warehouse. 
As the CMAR, Sundt is constructing all three construction packages of the project. The scope and fee for each construction 
package are negotiated separately. On May 6, 2019, City Council approved a contract for Package 1 with a negotiated 
106 of 574

--- page 107 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
guaranteed maximum price of $33,098,178 and $1,725,000 in contingency. Package 1 is anticipated to be complete in 
October 2020. 
Staff recommends approval of the amendment to Sundt to deliver Package 2 of the project. Sundt provided an initial cost 
submittal for Package 2 based on contract documents developed by HDR. Staff reviewed the cost submittal, negotiated the 
associated costs, and believe them to be reasonable for the effort and expertise required. Sundt’s cost estimate of 
$18,072,870 was negotiated and reduced to a guaranteed maximum price of $17,716,049. A contingency amount of 
$1,645,000 is recommended to cover potential unknown issues such as soil conditions, existing underground utilities, pile 
performance, and owner scope additions or change. A future amendment will be required for Sundt to construct Package 
3, which is anticipated to be submitted for City Council approval in August 2020. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in Project No. 46T003 for Construction Package 2.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The City prepared a Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) in accordance with the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (SCH No. 2015032006). Council on June 6, 2016, certified the PEIR. In accordance with 
CEQA, the Final PEIR serves as the primary environmental compliance document for the implementation of the Clean 
Water Program. The City prepared Addenda to the Final PEIR that was approved on July 16, 2018 (Addendum 1) and April 
15, 2019 (Addendum 2). This work is within the scope of the Project evaluated in the PEIR and Addendum.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Amendment 
            Exhibit A1 – Scope of Services, GMP 2 Submission
            Exhibit C1 – WIFIA and SRF Funding Requirements
STAFF CONTACT
Deryk Daquigan, Engineering Manager 
(Jennifer Phillips, Project Manager)
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7287 
Azalea Mitch, Deputy Director 
amitch@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7309
107 of 574

--- page 108 ---
1 
 
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND 
SUNDT CONSTRUCTION, INC. FOR THE 
WWTP NUTRIENT REMOVAL AND WET WEATHER FLOW MANAGEMENT 
UPGRADE AND EXPANSION PROJECT  
CONSTRUCTION MANAGER AT RISK CONSTRUCTION SERVICES 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State 
of California, and Sundt Construction, Inc. (“Contractor”), entered into an Agreement for 
Construction Manager at Risk (CMAR) Pre-Construction Services (“Agreement”) for the 
WWTP Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow Management Upgrade and Expansion 
Project on May 24, 2019; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, City and Contractor, wish to amend the Agreement to add scope and 
increase compensation. 
 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows: 
 
1. Article 2 – General Provisions is amended to revise paragraph 2.4.11 to 
“Owner is the person or entity identified in Article 1 and includes the Owner's 
Representative and any other Owner authorized person or entity.  The 
Owner’s designated Owner’s Representative for the project is Jacobs.” 
2. Article 3 – Construction Manager at Risk (CMAR) Responsibilities is 
amended to add paragraph “3.15 GMP-2 SCOPE OF PROJECT The scope of 
services for GMP-2 is set forth as Exhibit “A1,” City of San Mateo Nutrient 
Removal and Wet Weather Flow Management Upgrade & Expansion Project 
GMP 2 Submission prepared March 3, 2020, as attached and incorporated by 
reference.” 
3. Article 6 – Time of the Agreement is amended to add paragraph “6.9 GMP-2 
COMPLETION The services to be performed by the CMAR under this 
Agreement for GMP-2 shall commence and be completed as set forth in 
Exhibit “A1,” City of San Mateo Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow 
Management Upgrade & Expansion Project GMP 2 Submission prepared 
March 3, 2020, as attached and incorporated by reference.” 
4. Article 9 – Changes of the Agreement is amended to revise paragraph 9.3.1.3 
to apply to GMP-2 and GMP-3 to read “costs calculated on a basis agreed 
upon by the Owner and CMAR, plus CMAR fee for Overhead and Profit. The 
CMAR shall be entitled to a fee of 8 percent for overhead and profit based on 
the cost of the change in Work, plus applicable costs for associated changes in 
general conditions, bonds, and insurances.  When the change in Work 
involves subcontractors, compensation for such work shall be based on costs 
as listed by the subcontractor performing the work plus a maximum of 15 
percent of such costs for the subcontractor's overhead and profit.  If a lower 
tier subcontractor performs the work, the higher tier subcontractor may add a 
maximum of 5 percent to the lower tier subcontractor cost for overhead and 
profit.  The 5 percent subcontractor markup limitation shall be applied only 
108 of 574

--- page 109 ---
2 
 
once regardless of the number of tiers of subcontractors.  If the change in 
Work involves trade work self-performed by the CMAR, the same max 
limitation on overhead and profit markups noted for subcontractors and lower 
tier subcontractors will apply, or if otherwise negotiated differently as covered 
in Paragraph 7.3.2.” 
5. Article 10 – Payment is amended to add paragraph “10.11 GMP-2 
PAYMENT Payment of the Agreement for GMP-2 shall be a fee not to 
exceed $17,716,049. The Owner’s Contingency shall be $1,645,000. The fee 
schedule is set forth in Exhibit “A1,” City of San Mateo Nutrient Removal 
and Wet Weather Flow Management Upgrade & Expansion Project GMP 2 
Submission prepared March 3, 2020, as attached and incorporated by 
reference.”  
6. Exhibit C – WIFIA AND SRF Funding Requirements of the Agreement is 
amended to reference “Exhibits C and C1.” Exhibit C1 to the Agreement is 
attached and incorporated by reference.  
7. The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect. 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A1, GMP2 Submission 
Exhibit C1, WIFIA and SRF Funding Requirements 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
         SUNDT CONSTRUCTION, INC.  
 
 
______________________________ 
           ___________________________________ 
Brad Underwood, Public Works Director          Greg Ayres, Vice President  
 
Date:  ____________________  
           Date:  ____________________ 
 
           ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           ___________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
           Ronald R. Stuff, Sr. Vice President & General Counsel  
 
 
 
 
 
 
          Date:  ____________________ 
109 of 574

--- page 110 ---
Exhibit A1 
 
GMP2 Submission 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
110 of 574

--- page 111 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
NUTRIENT REMOVAL AND WET WEATHER FLOW 
MANAGEMENT UPGRADE & EXPANSTION PROJECT 
GMP2 Submission 
 
City Project # 46T003 / Prepared March 03, 2020 
111 of 574

--- page 112 ---
TABLE OF  
CONTENTS 
B / Basis of Estimate 
C / GMP2 Construction Schedule  
D / Estimate Summaries 
E / General Conditions Cost Detail 
F / Direct Cost Detail by Work 
Category  
G / Risk Matrix 
H / List of Documents 
 
I / Subcontractor List  
J / Sundt GMP2 CMAR Staffing  
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
112 of 574

--- page 113 ---
3—Basis of Estimate



--- page 114 ---
Basis of Estimate 
San Mateo Waste WWTP Nutrient Removal 
and Wet Weather Flow Management 
Upgrade and Expansion Project 
 
GMP-2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
February 28th, 2020 
114 of 574

--- page 115 ---
Page 1 of 7 
 
Contents 
San Mateo WWTP GMP-2 Estimate .............................................................................................................. 2 
General Information ................................................................................................................................. 2 
Project Information ............................................................................................................................... 2 
Overall Project General Description of Work: .......................................................................................... 2 
Scope of Work ........................................................................................................................................... 2 
Scope ..................................................................................................................................................... 2 
Estimating Approach, Direct Cost Clarifications, and Assumptions ...................................................... 3 
Estimating Approach ............................................................................................................................. 3 
Direct Cost Clarifications & Assumptions.............................................................................................. 4 
Indirect Costs, Insurances, and Fees ..................................................................................................... 5 
Allowances ............................................................................................................................................ 6 
Taxes ......................................................................................................................................................... 6 
Schedule .................................................................................................................................................... 6 
Construction Management ....................................................................................................................... 6 
Owners Costs ............................................................................................................................................ 6 
Exclusions .................................................................................................................................................. 6 
 
 
 
115 of 574

--- page 116 ---
Page 2 of 7 
 
San Mateo WWTP GMP-2 Estimate 
 
General Information 
Project Information 
This GMP is for the San Mateo WWTP Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow Management 
Upgrade and Expansion Project located generally at the intersection of Detroit Drive and Joinville 
Parkway in San Mateo, CA.  The project is an expansion and upgrade to the existing wastewater 
treatment plant which will be constructed north of the existing facility.  
Owner:   
 
City of San Mateo, California 
Program Manager: 
Jacobs Engineering 
Engineer:   
 
HDR Inc. 
CMAR:  
 
Sundt Construction Inc. 
San Mateo Project:  
46T003 
Overall Project General Description of Work: 
The intent of this project is to upgrade and increase the capacity of the existing San Mateo WWTP 
facility and to provide enough system capacity to treat peak wet weather flows.   
Scope of Work 
Scope  
The scope of this new facility includes a new headworks to collect flows from five influent force 
mains, screen influent flows through preliminary and fine screens and to provide grit aeration and 
screenings handling.  Also included are three new rectangular primary clarifiers that will operate 
and handle all flows during dry weather mode and then discharge into the BNR trains.   During wet 
weather mode, the additional flow will be split-off and processed through a new Bio-Contact Tank 
and the installed ACTIFLO high rate clarifier train which then discharges to the existing site Chorine 
Contact Basin.    Four trains of biological nutrient removal and a membrane bioreactor are 
included.  Other facilities include a new two-story administration building, a new maintenance 
building, an influent flow equalization basin that will be built from a conversion of the existing 
aeration basins, chemical and storage areas, odor control, and other site enhancements such as 
landscaping around the new facility. 
The scope of GMP-2 primarily includes precast prestressed concrete driven piles but also includes 
sheet piling, large-diameter shaft drilling/encasement, minor earthwork activities, Tower Crane 
foundations, and assembly.  The scope also includes supporting SWPPP, traffic control, 
groundwater treatment, and survey.   
116 of 574

--- page 117 ---
Page 3 of 7 
 
Estimating Approach, Direct Cost Clarifications, and Assumptions 
Estimating Approach 
WBS: 
To accurately price all scopes for the GMP-2 of the San Mateo WWTP project, Sundt subdivided 
the project into an area-specific work breakdown structure consisting of the following overall 
structures: 
• C - SITE WORK & GENERAL ITEMS 
Each WBS is prefaced with a letter corresponding to Sundt’s internal accounting procedures.  In 
addition, in parentheses at the end of each WBS is the structure number used by HDR to identify 
the work areas in the drawings.  Sundt will use this same structure for all estimating, scheduling, 
and bidding activities to ensure accurate cost/schedule breakdowns throughout the process. 
Work Category: 
Within each structure, Sundt has further subdivided the cost into work categories, also referred 
to as trade scopes.  The work category breakdown represents the way Sundt has bid and intends 
to procure the work in GMP-2.  Work Categories Included in GMP-2 include: 
• WC 0135 – Dust Control & Street Sweeping  
• WC 0136 – SWPPP  
• WC 0155 – Traffic Control (previously established GMP1 rates) 
• WC 0180 – Survey (previously established GMP1 rates and additional GMP-2 specific costs) 
• WC 0191 – Tower Cranes – Mobilization and Assembly 
• WC 0309 – Tower Crane Foundations 
• WC 3100 – Earthwork 
• WC 3132 – Groundwater & Storm Water Treatment Systems 
• WC 3141 – Sump Large Bore Drilling and Steel Encasement  
• WC 3162 – Precast Prestressed Concrete Driven Piles and Sheet Piling 
CMAR Markups: 
CMAR Contingency: Included as 3.5% of direct cost.   
Owner's Contingency for Potential Scope Changes: Included as 9.1% of CMAR contract.  This cost 
is for the owner’s use to cover noted project risks and potential changes to the scope of GMP-2 as 
highlighted on the submitted Risk Summary/Owner Contingency Log. 
CMAR Fee: Sundt includes 8% for CMAR overhead and Profit. 
CMAR Insurances: 
Subcontractor Default Insurance (SDI):  Direct Costs include a markup of 1% of all Subcontract 
costs (Covers all prequalified Subcontractor’s Payment and Performance Bond Requirements.  
Non-Prequalified subcontractors will be bonded at Subcontractor’s internal bond rates, and 
Sundt’s 1% SDI will not be carried on non-prequalified subcontractor costs). Incorporation of 
117 of 574

--- page 118 ---
Page 4 of 7 
 
authorized Allowances, CMAR Contingency, and Owner contingency will be applied with a 1.1% 
SDI rate. 
General Liability: 0.29% of Total Contract Revenues 
Difference-in-Coverage Insurance: 0.17% of Total Contract Revenues 
 
Direct Cost Clarifications & Assumptions 
General: 
1. Labor has been included according to prevailing wage rates applicable at the time of the 
bid.     
2. Pricing incorporates PLA provisions for the project. 
3. Pricing assumes that the City will provide all access and easements as required to complete 
the work.   
4. Assumes Owner provided OCIP and Builder’s Risk Policies. 
WC 0135 – Dust Control & Street Sweeping: 
1. Sundt has included costs for dust control and street sweeping as required.  Street sweeping 
will predominately occur daily during pile driving activities and pile delivery, with additional 
visits as needed during construction. 
WC 0136 – SWPPP: 
1. GMP2 SWPPP is a continuation of the SWPPP plan initiated in GMP1.   
2. SWPPP costs include HydroCompliance QSP consulting services for permit compliance 
monitoring of the Project Risk Level 2 SWPPP. 
3. Sundt has included cost for SWPPP program-level changes to the SWPPP manual as the 
scope transitions to the GMP2 scope.  HydroCompliance, the project QSD and (QSP) will 
lead and facilitate all changes. 
WC 0155 – Traffic Control: 
1. Sundt has included costs to provide traffic control as needed during construction.  It is 
anticipated that select sections of Detroit Drive and Joinville Park Roads will have limited 
access due to construction activity and maneuvering of the extended length trucks 
delivering the precast concrete piles. 
WC 0180 – Survey: 
1. Routine control and critical survey checks are included in the survey work category. This 
also includes ground settlement survey monitoring daily. 
2. Survey for GMP2 also includes as-built services for all pile locations.   
WC 0191 – Tower Cranes: 
118 of 574

--- page 119 ---
Page 5 of 7 
 
1. Sundt will execute a lease with supplier Bigge Cranes for the project’s two (2) Tower 
Cranes.  This scope of work includes the mobilization, erection, testing, and OSHA 
certification for both tower cranes.  Ongoing lease and rental costs will be carried in GMP-
3.  Sundt will obtain clearance from the City before executing the Tower Crane lease. 
WC 0309 – Tower Crane Foundation: 
1. The cost to construct both tower crane pile caps and foundations was carried forward in 
this GMP.   This scope will be released to the current TBD concrete subcontractor selected 
for GMP3. 
WC 3100 – Excavation: 
1. Sundt has included all required earthwork and rat slab installation for the lower elevation 
BioActiflo area and Elevator Pit, which consists of the excavation, disposal, and 
supply/install of a 4” concrete rat slab.  
2. Import, place, and level ¾” drain rock 4 inches thick over the lime treated subgrade at the 
bottom of the excavation. 
3. Load, off haul, and dispose of all drilling spoils from the pile operation, including four drain 
sump locations.   
WC 3123 – Dewatering Treatment System: 
1. The continuation of dewatering treatment-related scope from GMP-1.  This includes 
equipment lease cost, maintenance, operational labor, filter media changes, and 
regulatory testing and reporting.  This scope is carried for six months, at which time GMP3 
will carry this continuing Dewatering Treatment cost. 
WC 3162 – Precast Prestressed Driven Piles: 
1. Pricing includes approximately 1,950 piles, including the tower crane foundations, yard 
pipe, and 17 additional piles for known pending changes that will be issued to Sundt as 
an addendum to the RFC released GMP2 drawings.    
2. Pricing does not include any provisions for unknown underground conflicts encountered 
during all pile driving activities.  If the subcontractor encounters conflicts not previously 
noted in the contract documents, Sundt will notify the Owner of the change of the 
condition. 
 
General Conditions/Requirements, Insurances, Bonds, and Fees 
Sundt has included costs for the Construction Management staff for GMP-2 along with costs for 
various General Requirement items.  A detailed estimate of these Lump Sum General 
Condition/General Requirement items is included in section E.   
119 of 574

--- page 120 ---
Page 6 of 7 
 
All General Conditions and Requirements for GMP-2 are based on a six-month duration. Although 
the construction duration of GMP-2 is longer than six months, GMP-3 construction overlaps and 
General Conditions and Requirements beyond the six-month duration will be included as part of 
the GMP3 related costs.   If in the event that GMP-3 funding is not released prior to the end of the 
GMP-2 six-month covered period,  Sundt will request additional General Conditions and 
Requirements funds to support the execution of the remaining GMP-2 scope of work.   
Sundt has included insurances, bond, and the CMAR fee as part of GMP-2 costs.  Insurances carried 
account for the Owner provided OCIP and Builder’s Risk. 
Allowances 
Indirect allowances have been identified and included in Sundt’s GMP cost.  The values of these 
allowances have been identified in Section D of this GMP deliverable.  All allowances will be 
reconciled with the City upon completion of the GMP scopes of work. 
Taxes 
Sundt has included taxes as applicable at a rate of 9% on top of all materials, rentals, and 
equipment on this project.  In addition, all subcontractors are required to carry this same tax on 
their applicable materials and equipment.  Sundt will work with the City’s tax professionals to 
ensure compliance with all local City, State, and Federal requirements. 
Schedule 
A project schedule has been included as part of the GMP-2 submittal by Sundt.  The project 
schedule is provided with dates and milestones.   See section C of this GMP for details. 
Construction Management 
Construction management staff provided by Sundt Construction is based on the proposed scope 
of work and construction schedule, and the six months previously defined.  Costs for 
administration, general conditions, general requirements, quality control, temporary facilities, 
safety, startup and commissioning have been included for the above noted period. 
Owners Costs 
This GMP does not include any cost for the following, which are assumed to be provided by the 
City of San Mateo. 
• Design Services & Engineering 
• Construction administration, oversight, and review normally performed by the design 
professional. 
• Quality Control Testing and Special Inspections 
• Labor Compliance Services  
Exclusions 
This GMP-2 submittal is based upon an exception to Specification section 02 00 11, 3.1 B. Based 
on the Dewatering and Pile driving activities that will be taking place during this scope, it is 
120 of 574

--- page 121 ---
Page 7 of 7 
 
unknown what potential damages may be caused by vibration and soil settlement to nearby 
existing structures, if any. Thus, there is no way for Sundt to capture the cost associated with this 
unknown risk. 
To help mitigate this risk, Sundt will conduct a pre-condition survey and document findings, 
monitor ground-level changes through consistent surveying of 10 locations, and continuously 
monitor groundwater levels on the site perimeter at 4 Observation Well locations.  Sundt also 
will setup Vibration Monitoring during all Pile Driving operations. 
121 of 574

--- page 122 ---
Comment 
Number
Reference Page No.
Reviewer 
Review Comment
CAT 
NO. Responder Sundt Responses - 10/17/19
Sundt Responses - 12/19/19
PMO Final 
Adjudication: "Done" if 
resolved
Sundt Responses - 2/20/2020
1
General Conditions & 
General Requirements
PMO
Detailed discussion to be held directly with Sundt. 
Sundt
Sundt will await further direction on this.
GC/GR costs have not changed 
since the original submission.
Addressed in 2.18.20 
meeting
2
Subcontractor Markups
PMO
Change order markups will comply with EJCDC and 
Clean Water Program contracts. The following will be 
added to the Prime Contract: 15% OH&P markup on 
labor for firm performing the work; 15% OH&P markup 
on material for firm providing the material; Sundt 
markup of 5% on subcontractors; 5% OH&P markup for 
1st tier subcontractor on a second tier, or lower tier 
subcontractor, that performs the work.   
2
Sundt
Sundt recommends further discussions with PMO/City for these 
proposed Prime Contract changes. The Prime Contract has language 
already included that specifies that CMAR fee is applied to changes in 
work.  The proposed addition of contract language specifying maximum 
markups for the firm performing the work or the firm providing the 
material needs some discussion, as well as the markup on lower tier 
subcontractors.  Any resulting Prime Contract changes will need to be 
sent to the GMP-2 selected subcontractors for review and bid adjustments 
(if any). Any resulting Prime Contract change needs to specify the change 
only applies to GMP-2 and GMP-3 scopes, since all GMP-1 subcontracts 
are based upon the current Prime Contract.
All subcontractor change order 
mark-ups will to 15% profit on 
material and labor.
Under Discussion
The proposed Prime Contract 
amendment language that Mike 
Dinapoli emaile me on 1/21 is now 
under review by Sundt Management.  If 
there is an updated draft of the Contract 
Language change, please send it over so 
I have we are reviewing the latest 
proposed.
3
Federal Funding Documents
PMO
Where are the documents required for Federal Funding 
requirements?
2
Sundt
These documents were not included in the GMP-2 submittal.  Sundt will 
get these documents incorporated and submit along with the subsequent 
GMP-2 resubmittal that will roll-in 100% Design and Specification at the 
end of November per the adjusted Preconstruction schedule discussed. 
These forms will be completed 
when the subcontract is completed 
with the selected subcontractor.
Documents are not in 
the 12.19.19 resubmittal. 
Please confirm when 
these will be addressed.
These forms will be completed when the 
subcontract is completed with the 
selected subcontractor.
4
Pile Driving Mitigation 
Measures
PMO
Have the mitigation measures for pile driving been 
addressed by the bids?
2
Sundt
Sundt is requesting PMO interpretation and further definition of what 
Mitigation Measures are required for Pile Driving.  Sundt has accounted 
for Sound mitigation, Vibration monitoring, Restricted Work hours, and 
designated Trucking Routes. One of the Sound Mitigation measures will 
include a 24' High Temporary Sound Wall attached to the Shoring Soldier 
Piles on the west side of the site during the Phase 1 Pile Driving of lower 
elevation piles.  It should be noted that the Temporary Sound Wall will 
not be in place for the Phase 2 Pile Driving of the higher elevation Piles 
for the Headworks, MBR, Electrical, Admin Building, and Yard Piping 
Piles. These locations are located outside of the Shoring Wall perimeter. 
Other sound mitigation items that will be incorporated is the required use 
of Hydraulic Pile Hammers and Sound Attenuation Shrouds at the blow 
contact point.
GMP2 resubmittal also included a 
16' sound wall to account for Phase 
2, along Detroit Drive east curb to 
mitigte noise for All-American 
Storage and the residentail area 
behind it.
Wanted confirmation 
that the hydraulic 
hammer and shroud 
will be used. This is not 
clear in the proposal - 
please add to 
clarifications. 16 ft 
temporary wall will be 
used for the Phase 2 pile 
driving and has been 
included.
The Hyrdaulic Hammer with shroud is 
part of Foundation Constructors base 
bid.  Just a FYI – Foundation would offer 
a $85K credit if they can go with a Diesel 
Hammer with their new shroud design.  
This was discussed …but was rejected 
by City as communication already went 
out to the public that we were going to 
use a hydraulic rig.
5
Narrative, Page 5 of 7, WC 
0135 - Dust Control & Street 
Sweeping and WC 0136 
SWPPP
PMO
The current construction schedule for GMP 1 is NTP 
(June 4, 2019), Substantial Completion (July 31, 2020) and 
Final Completion (October 1, 2020). The proposed 
construction schedule for GMP 2 is NTP (December 2, 
2019), Substantial Completion (November 19, 2021) and 
Final Completion (December 14, 2021). The schedule 
being carried for GMP 3 is NTP (June 2020), Substantial 
Completion (March 2024) and Final Completion (June 
2024). Because GMP 2 is overlapped by GMP 1 and GMP 
3, why is additional fee shown for GMP 2? Clarify 
coverage for additional 6 months, when GMP 1 is shown 
for 14 months.
2
Sundt
Street Sweeping and Dust Control are activities that will be required 
throughout the duration of the Project.  The first 14 months for this was  
covered in GMP-1, the second 6 months for this is carried in GMP-2, and 
the remaining project duration will be covered in GMP-3.  GMP-2 activity 
is overlapped on both ends with GMP-1 and GMP-3 activity.  It was 
communicated in the GMP-1 review that these type of costs would be 
based upon a set time duration for each GMP.  With simultaneous GMP 
activity, it would be difficult to separate out and allocate costs to a 
specific GMP.  The various dates referenced in the Comments are no 
longer current due to GMP-1 delays and trailing impacts on GMP-2/3.  A 
revised GMP-2 schedule will be included with the GMP-2 package 
resubmittal.
Schedule has been revised and 
included in the scheduling section 
of this GMP.
Done
6
Narrative, Page 5 of 7, WC 
0135 - Traffic Management
PMO
The current construction schedule for GMP 1 is NTP 
(June 4, 2019), Substantial Completion (July 31, 2020) and 
Final Completion (October 1, 2020). The proposed 
construction schedule for GMP 2 is NTP (December 2, 
2019), Substantial Completion (November 19, 2021) and 
Final Completion (December 14, 2021). The schedule 
being carried for GMP 3 is NTP (June 2020), Substantial 
Completion (March 2024) and Final Completion (June 
2024). Because GMP 2 is overlapped by GMP 1 and GMP 
3, why is additional fee shown for GMP 2? Clarify 
coverage for additional 6 months, when GMP 1 is shown 
for 14 months.
2
Sundt
Similar comment as Comment #5.   The response to Comment #5 above 
applies to Traffic Management as well.
Schedule has been revised and 
included in the scheduling section 
of this GMP.
Done
1 of 4
46T003_GMP2_Comments Adjudication_Final_02.24.20.xlsm
&nbsp;
122 of&nbsp;574

--- page 123 ---
Comment 
Number
Reference Page No.
Reviewer 
Review Comment
CAT 
NO. Responder Sundt Responses - 10/17/19
Sundt Responses - 12/19/19
PMO Final 
Adjudication: "Done" if 
resolved
Sundt Responses - 2/20/2020
7
Narrative, Page 5 of 7, WC 
0309 - Tower Cranes
PMO
Why is the City paying a premium to lease two tower 
cranes early that will not be used until GMP 3? The 
contractor is required to provide the necessary 
equipment for the work.
2
Sundt
The City will not be paying a premium as Sundt will only submit 
invoicing for the Tower Crane costs as they are expended each month. 
Also, the Tower Cranes will be installed in a "just in time" manner to 
support the GMP-3 Concrete scope, eliminating any cost related to idle 
time of the installed Tower Cranes.    The Tower Crane subcontract 
commitment release should be put in place 6 months in advance of need 
date to ensure market availability and to complete the design of the Crane 
foundations.  Costs for submittals, delivery, erection, testing, and OSHA 
certification of the two Tower Cranes is carried in GMP-2, along with the 
first 3 months of monthly lease, operator costs, maintenance, and 
inspections.  Lease and operational costs beyond the first 3 months will be 
carried in GMP-3, along with dismantling and demob costs.   The GMP-3 
subcontractors will be made aware that these Tower Cranes will be 
available and that supplementary mobile cranes will only be allowed if 
approved by Sundt. The subcontractor will be responsible for carrying 
any supplemental cranes that they feel is necessary in their submitted 
bids. 
Tower Crane costs were revised in 
the resubmittal.  The cost includes 
the bare rental of the tower cranes, 
erection, and inspections   
Include stipulation for 
release by Owner.
The Subcontract to Bigge Crane will not 
be released until we have prior 
authorization from Jacobs/City to 
proceed.   Just a fyi, we will need to 
release this within a few weeks after 
GMP-2 NTP to secure the Crane 
availability.   Also, we need to know 
what the exact Crane is so our Structural 
Engineering consultant can design the 
supporting Piles and Crane Foundations. 
8
Narrative, Page 5 of 7, WC 
3100 - Excavation
PMO
WC 3100, Item 1 - Why is the earthwork for the 
BioActiflo area included? Wasn't this addressed in GMP 
1?
2
Sundt
This is Earthwork scope to excavate out the lower elevation area for the 
ActiFlo process area and haul-off to fill site.  This is included in GMP-2 as 
it can only be done once the Piles are driven from the 88' Elevation Level 
with a follower bar to the required recessed elevation and then 
subsequent installation of the perimeter sheet pile by the Pile 
subcontractor (Note: The Sheet Pile will be used as the exterior form wall 
for this lower elevation as cleared by HDR)
No change to the initial response.
Provide unit cost detail.
See EBI quote included in the GMP-2 
resubmittal package.  The volume of 
earthwork aligns with the perimeter 
dimensions and depth of the ActiFlo 
process area.
9
Narrative, Page 5 of 7, WC 
3100 - Excavation
PMO
WC 3100, Item 2 - Clarify the extent of the 4 inches of 3/4-
inch drain rock. Is this for the entire excavation, or just 
the BioActiflo area?
3
Sundt
This includes coverage layer for the mass ex area within the perimeter 
shoring area.  This serves two purposes 1.) Protection of the Lime 
Stabilized Structural Subbase, and 2.) Provides a surface that will 
minimize rain delays during the Pile Driving operation. This will not be 
applied to the lower elevation BioActiflo area.   Scope to scrape and push 
this drain rock to the shoring perimeter to be used as backfill once the 
exterior Concrete walls are in place will be included in GMP-3.
No change to the initial response.
Done
10
Narrative, Page 5 of 7, WC 
3100 - Excavation
PMO
WC 3100, Item 3 - Provide detail for the pile drilling 
spoils quantity. Summary shows this as 60 loads. 
Presented as a lump sum, with no sub quote provided.
2
Sundt
The spoils quantity was determined by the amount of Piles and the 
associated  pre-drill diameter and depth. The cost per load includes a 
loader, trucking, and disposal cost.  Cost was validated from equivalent 
unit rates extracted from GMP-1 from Evans Brothers with inclusion of 
scheduled Union Labor Rate increases scheduled for June 2020.
The quote has been included in the 
resubmittal and can be found in the 
Evans Brothers proposal.
Provide unit cost detail.
Spoils will be hauled-off to Ox Mountain 
Landfill.  See Add Alt#4 on 2nd page of 
the  EBI quote that was included in the 
GMP-2 resubmittal package.
11
Cost Summary
PMO
WC 3100 - Import, placing and compacting of 4-inch 
granular base at $1.34/sf appears high. Was only Evans 
Brothers asked?
2
Sundt
The relatively small amount of Earthwork in GMP-2 was not 
competitively bidded.  Evans Brothers unit costs obtained via the GMP-1 
bid process was utilized where applicable.  When unit rate costs were not 
established, the Sundt Estimate team reviewed Evans Brothers proposed 
unit rates and costs to ensure within local market rates.  The unit rate 
covers import, place, and compact and was determined to be in alignment 
with market.
No change to the initial response.
Done
12
Cost Summary
PMO
WC 3100 - Hauling of drilled spoils at $1,550/load 
appears high. Verify disposal location and cy/load. Was 
only Evans Brothers asked?
2
Sundt
The relatively small amount of Earthwork in GMP-2 was not competitive 
bidded.  Evans Brothers unit costs obtained via the GMP-1 bid process 
was utilized where applicable. When unit rate costs were not established, 
the Sundt Estimate team reviewed Evans Brothers proposed unit rates 
and costs to ensure they were within local market rates. The cost per load 
includes a loader, trucking, and disposal cost.  Cost was validated from 
equivalent unit rates extracted from GMP-1 from Evans Brothers with 
inclusion of scheduled Union Labor Rate increases scheduled for June 
2020.
No change to the initial response.
Identify landfill.
Unit cost is $1,550/load which includes 
loading of the truck, trucking to the 
landfill, and associated disposal fees.  
This unit cost includes the anticipated 
several loader mobilizations.  This is not 
a continuous duration scope, it will be 
sporadic over the entire Pile duration. 
See Add Alt#4 on 2nd page of the EBI 
quote that was included in the GMP-2 
resubmittal package.
2 of 4
46T003_GMP2_Comments Adjudication_Final_02.24.20.xlsm
&nbsp;
123 of&nbsp;574

--- page 124 ---
Comment 
Number
Reference Page No.
Reviewer 
Review Comment
CAT 
NO. Responder Sundt Responses - 10/17/19
Sundt Responses - 12/19/19
PMO Final 
Adjudication: "Done" if 
resolved
Sundt Responses - 2/20/2020
13
Schedule
PMO
Sundt previously indicated that the indicator pile testing 
was increasing the schedule by 3 months. The schedule 
shows the indicator pile testing for lower elevation and 
higher elevation piles being completed in two separate 
phases, which extends the schedule further. Why are 
these being performed approximately a year apart? 
Please explain the basis for the schedule.
2
Sundt
After discussions with HDR Structural/Geotechnical Engineer on the 
Indicator Pile Testing requirements in the 90% Bid Specification, they 
agreed that the Spec requirement would be adjusted along with the 
number of identified Indicator Piles on the 90% Bid drawings. The 100% 
Drawings and Specs will document these changes, and identify select 
areas where Production Piling can start simultaneously.  Regarding the 2-
Phase Pile Driving Approach, lower elevation piles will be completed in 
Phase 1.  The GMP-3 Concrete Subcontractor will then pour the lower 
elevation mat slab and build the exterior walls adjacent to the adjoining 
higher elevation Structures (Headworks, MBR, Electrical, and Admin 
Building) and any additional concrete walls that is required by HDR 
Structural Engineer to allow backfilling against these Exterior Wall 
sections.  Once backfill is allowed, the sub-base for the adjoining 
structures will be built up to the specified elevation levels and which 
point the Phase 2 Piling will resume on the higher elevation structures.   
Once the 100% Pile Design and Specs are released, the GMP-2 schedule 
will revised to reflect and will be included with the GMP-2 package re-
submittal.  The time gap between Phase 1 Pile Driving Completion and 
Phase 2 Pile Driving Start is 5-6 months, not the one year noted in the 
Comment.
Please refer to the new schedule 
that has been modified to reflect 
RFI-10 in this resubmittal.
Done
14
Schedule
PMO
The schedule shows fabrication, cure and delivery of the 
production piles prior to Engineer review and approval 
of the Indicator PDA report. Clarify timeline.
2
Sundt
As noted in Comment #13, HDR Structural/Geotechnical Engineer 
agreed to allow flexibility with this and will be documented in the 100% 
Drawings and Specifications. They have provided a marked-up drawing 
showing areas where Production Pile work can be completed 
simultaneously with Indicator Pile Testing/Submittal/Engineer Review 
period. 
No change to the initial response.  
The new schedule incorporates this 
comment.
Done
15
Schedule
PMO
The planned City Council meeting is currently November 
18, 2019. NTP is two weeks after the City Council 
meeting.
3
Sundt
Sundt will adjust NTP date to reflect what the City requires for this 
duration. 
The new city council date is in 
March 2020.
NTP is April 7, 2020
GMP-2 NTP date of April 7th is noted.  
This date will be carried in the GMP-2 
revised schedule that will be included in 
the final GMP-2 package submittal on 
2/28
16
Estimate Summary
PMO
The Direct Cost line shows 5 work/bid packages of 
which WC 0300 and WC 3123 are listed. Should these be 
WC 3100 and 3132?
3
Sundt
WC-0300 is the concrete work for the tower crane foundation and WC-
3123 is a continuation of the Dewatering Treatment System that was 
bidded and awarded to Clear Creak in GMP-1.
No change to the initial response.
Done
17
Estimate Summary
PMO
Explain the need for the Direct Cost allowance for sheet 
piling for sumps, for $514,090. 
2
Sundt
This Allowance is to drive sheet pile around the 4 Process Drain Sumps 
and then excavate it out to the 12' required depth for subsequent concrete 
forming.   Similar to Comment #8, this can only be done once the Piles are 
driven from the 88' Elevation Level with a follower bar to the required 
elevation and then subsequent installation of the perimeter sheet pile by 
the Pile subcontractor.   Allowance assumed 4 - 12' x 12' Sheet Pile Boxes - 
12' deep; equating to 2,300 sq. ft of sheet pile.  Excavation includes 
digging out 256 cy of Bay Mud and hauling to disposal site.  The 
allowance estimate was based upon extrapolation of the unit costs used 
for the BioActiflo area that was included in the base bid.
This cost allowance has been 
removed from the original 
submission and has been revised to 
include Malcolm Drilling to drill 
and place 72" ID steel casing these 
four sumps.  A new work category 
has been added to this submission, 
WC-3141 Sump Drilling.
Approach has changed - 
removed from 
allowance and priced as 
shown in contract 
documents.
This change in scope was captured in the 
12/19 Sundt Responses.  The Initial cost 
allowance has been removed and 
included in a new Work Category WC-
3141 Sump Drilling
18
Quotes - WC 3162, Piles
PMO
In the summary, the quote for Foundation Constructors 
is shown as $10,678,925 and the quote for Condon 
Johnson is shown as $11,272,840. The detailed bids show 
the opposite - Foundation Constructors at $11,203,000 
and Condon Johnson at $10,187,900. The cost carried in 
the overall total is $10,785,714. Explain the differences.
2
Sundt
The Foundation Constructors proposal that was included with the GMP-2 
Submittal Package was not the latest version.  The latest Foundation 
Constructors proposal, based upon the final Bid Addendum that Sundt 
released during the GMP-2 bid process, will be re-submitted for PMO 
review. This proposal amount of $10,062,00 aligns with the first 8 line 
items in the Pile Bid abstract.  The additional Bid Abstract line items cover 
other Pile related scope such as Tower Crane Piles, Vibration Monitoring, 
Stormwater Evacuation, Pile Cut-offs, and the Temporary Sound wall 
monthly lease and dismantling.  The $10,785,714 carried in the submitted 
estimate includes all of the noted items plus subcontractor default 
insurance and applicable taxes. 
A revised abstract has been 
included in the resubmittal to 
include updated RFC pile 
drawings, additional piles required 
for GMP3 yard, tower crane 
foundations, and 17 additional piles 
for known changes that will be in 
the next release of the RFC 
documents.
Verify piles per permit 
review comments have 
been added.
The addition of 17 piles that were not 
included in the GMP-2 RFC design were 
captured in the Foundation Constructors 
price per the 12/19 Sundt Responses 
(attached).  The HDR drawings received 
today showing these 17 additional piles 
are under review by Foundation 
Constructors for one more last 
validation.  No change to the Foundation 
Constructors pile count and cost is 
anticipated.
3 of 4
46T003_GMP2_Comments Adjudication_Final_02.24.20.xlsm
&nbsp;
124 of&nbsp;574

--- page 125 ---
Comment 
Number
Reference Page No.
Reviewer 
Review Comment
CAT 
NO. Responder Sundt Responses - 10/17/19
Sundt Responses - 12/19/19
PMO Final 
Adjudication: "Done" if 
resolved
Sundt Responses - 2/20/2020
19
Quotes - WC 3162, Piles
PMO
There are proposed costs for additions and deducts in the 
pile length. For additions and deducts prior to 
fabrication, the unit cost for the piles in the bid should be 
used.
2
Sundt
The Pile subcontractor unit rates for adds/deducts are different because 
their actual costs to make a change either way varies.  There are trucking, 
lofting labor, and materials per pile that cannot be given back if the pile is 
shortened a few feet.   
No change to the initial response.
Done
20
Quotes - WC 3162, Piles
PMO
Verify which quote is recommended. We want to have a 
detailed discussion on the exclusions.
2
Sundt
Section I - Subcontract List in the Submitted GMP-2 Package lists out all 
the GMP-2 subcontractors that are being recommended for selection. The 
Pile Subcontractor that is recommended is Foundation Constructors. The 
Foundation Constructor proposal along with Sundt's exclusion 
assessment will be sent to PMO for review.
No change to the initial response.
Done
21
Estimate Review Report
PMO
Estimate totals do not exactly align with sub quotes. 
Clarify difference.
3
Sundt
The estimate totals from the bid abstract does not include subcontractor 
default insurance of 1%.  
No change to the initial response.
Done
22
Risk Summary, Item 1
PMO
The description notes potential for a significant amount 
of piles will require cut-off in the field. That is unrelated 
to the description of obstructions and should be carried 
as a separate line item.
2
Sundt
Sundt will split this into two separate line items. See revised submitted 
Owner Contingency - Risk Matrix.
No change to the initial response.
Done
23
Risk Summary, Item 3
PMO
The piles for the yard piping have been moved to GMP 3. 
2
Sundt
Discussion with HDR revealed that the Yard Piping Piles adjacent to the 
new WWTP facility could be done with the lower cost Precast Concrete 
Piles in lieu of the original planned Steel Torque Piles.  Regardless if these 
Yard Piping Piles land on the GMP-2 100% Drawings or the GMP-3 
Drawings, these Yard Piping piles will need to be coordinated and 
installed at the same time the GMP-2 Phase 2 Piling is being executed by 
the Pile subcontractor.  After validation with HDR, If PMO directs this 
cost to be deferred until GMP-3, Sundt can do so.  Either way, Sundt will 
ensure this scope will be submitted in only 1 of the GMP's.
13 yard pipe piles have been 
included in this resubmittal.  
Done
24
Risk Summary, Item 4
PMO
What was the resolution at the job site that experienced 
issues with Chromium VI, with respect to elevated pH in 
the dewatering due to the lime stabilization? 
2
Sundt
Sundt will reach out to our Dewatering Treatment Subcontractor Clear 
Creek and our Environmental Consultant WSP for updates on the project 
that experienced this issue.   This Risk item was included to convey that 
we have potential risk with Groundwater Treatment meeting the NPDES 
permit requirements in the event the actual groundwater constituents do 
not align with what was relayed in the Specifications.  Additional 
treatment processes and operational costs may need to be added what is 
currently planned.
No change to the initial response.
Outstanding
See WSP Engineering commentary on on 
the bottom of this page.
25
Risk Summary, Item 7
PMO
What is the basis of this estimate?
2
Sundt
This is a plug number that Sundt feels was reasonable to deal with 
extreme or extended rain event(s), and the cost for supplemental 
pumping, conveyance, and treatment of the Storm Water including 
associated labor costs. 
No change to the initial response.
Done
26
Risk Summary - New Item
PMO
Increases in pile length, due to differing performance.
2
Sundt
Sundt will add an additional line item to cover this noted risk.  See 
revised submitted Owner Contingency - Risk Matrix. 
No change to the initial response.
Done
Comment #24 - Response - Supplementary
4 of 4
46T003_GMP2_Comments Adjudication_Final_02.24.20.xlsm
&nbsp;
125 of&nbsp;574

--- page 126 ---
March 03, 2020  
 
City of San Mateo Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow Management Upgrade & Expansion Project 
RE:  GMP2 Response to Owner’s Comments Regarding General Conditions and Requirements 
 
Please see the attached comments and responses to the final GMP2 negotiations.   
 
If you have any questions, please send an email to acastaneda@sundt.com or call at 480-436-2753. 
 
 
Thank you, 
 
 
Andre Castaneda 
Sundt Construction, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
126 of 574

--- page 127 ---
Comment 
Number
PMO Review Comment - 2/28/20
Sundt Responses - 3/2/20
PMO Responses - 3/2/20
Sundt Responses - 3/3/20
1
Labor hours decreased, yet labor rates and vehicle rates 
increased since the December 2019 submittal. Why?  
After review of the prior submitted GMP-2 package on 12/19, it was revealed that the 
labor rates did not align with GMP-1.  The GMP-2 rates were adjusted accordingly.    The 
12/19 submittal vehicle rates did not include 9% tax, which was also adjusted.  
Labor Hours – Accepted for GMP 2. Provide a labor rate 
sheet for anticipated personnel positions for the entire 
project. The City limits the annual rate increase for 
personnel on projects, so there needs to be agreement on 
the labor rates for GMP 3.  
Acknowledged.  Labor rates for GMP-3 will be 
discussed with the City as part of the GMP-3 budget 
development process.
2
Public Outreach labor should reflect the limited scope 
and be reduced further.
Not sure if the Pile Driving phase coincides with the "limited scope" comment for this 
role. Regardless, the Public Outreach labor is showing zero'd out on latest GC/GR cost 
submittal as we discussed at the 2/18 review meeting.  At the same meeting Sundt 
offered to turn over all the Community Outreach budget but was directed to keep in the 
material budget for this line item.  As mentioned then, Sundt will give it all back and let 
Jacobs/City handle everything on this front.  Sundt is looking for confirmation from 
Jacobs/City to do such.  
Sundt to reduce the fee to reflect the scope in GMP2, 
focused on the door hanger production and distribution.
Acknowledged.  The budget has been adjusted to 
$7,700 for printing of 3,800 door hangers and 
neighborhood distribution. As directed at the 3/2 
meeting, an additional $25,000 was added to the 
Owner's Contingency Risk/Matrix Log  (Item#10) for 
any additional Neighborhood Outreach related costs.
3
Site Security Personnel cost was increased. Why?
The Security Contract that was recently put in place is $18.40 per hour for Security watch. 
At 113 hours per week, the weekly rate is $2,079 equating to the $54,080 over the 26 week 
covered period. The 2/19 submittal was updated accordingly. If Jacobs/City has other 
sources that will sign the PLA and less expensive, Sundt will consider changing 
suppliers. 
Accepted as shown in the 2/27 General Conditions 
summary, based on explanation.
Acknowledged.
4
Tablets were funded under GMP-1. Staff has not 
changed, so there should be no additional cost in GMP 2. 
 
Regarding GMP-1, the previous budget did not carry tablets for all staff members.  For 
GMP-2, one of these tablets should have been removed due to the elimination of the 2nd 
Field Engineer from the staff that that was recently discussed at the 2/19 review meeting.  
The remaining budget are tablets that were planned to be designated as loaners to on-site 
Subcontractor Safety professionals to execute field safety audits for roll up into Sundt’s 
Construction Analytics AI Platform.  Sundt has reassessed the latter and determined that 
this can be deferred until GMP-3.  Sundt will zero out this GMP-2 carried budget line 
Accepted as revised. Cost will be reduced to $0 for GMP 
2.
Acknowledged.
5
Chemical toilets at $50K over 6 months appears high 
based on rates we are seeing. Provide quote or go T&M.  
Besides coverage for the GMP-2 site headcount subcontractors, Sundt plans to mobilize 
the major GMP-3 subcontractors starting in mid-October increasing the number of 
Chemical Toilets/Hand Wash stations on the site.  Sundt (and OSHA) requires 1 Chem 
toilet per 10 heads plus Hand Wash stations at a minimum….plus additional to account 
for reasonable walking distance and gender regardless of headcount.  Unit rate is 
$146/month for each Chemical Toilet and Hand Wash station.   This GMP-2 line item is 
carrying on average 15 Chem toilets and 5 Hand Wash Stations over the 6 month period, 
Accepted as revised. Cost will be reduced to $18,300 for 
GMP 2.
Acknowledged.
6
Will allow $5K for safety incentive.  
Sundt will reduce this budget line item to align.  
Accepted as revised. Cost will be reduced to $5,000 for 
GMP 2.
Acknowledged.
7
Video surveillance appears high. Provide quote or go 
T&M.
The monthly data and hosting service is $1.5K per month totaling $9K over the period.  
An additional  $4K was carried for maintenance and service of the Cameras and 
connected Solar Panels.   The remaining $13K was carried in this line item to relocate the 
two camera/solar panel units to the two tower cranes.   If Jacobs/City is satisfied with 
them staying in the current location and the coverage once the structure comes out of the 
ground, Sundt can reduce this line item by the noted amount.  Sundt is fine with 
executing all Video Surveillance scope under a T&M basis and relinquishing the 
Cost to be maintained as shown in the 2/27 General 
Conditions summary as lump sum; cameras to be 
relocated to the two tower cranes. T&M will not apply to 
this line item.
Acknowledged.
46T003_GMP2_Comments Adjudication_Final_03.03.20.xlsm
1 of 2
&nbsp;
127 of&nbsp;574

--- page 128 ---
Comment 
Number
PMO Review Comment - 2/28/20
Sundt Responses - 3/2/20
PMO Responses - 3/2/20
Sundt Responses - 3/3/20
8
Lunch tent was funded under GMP 1 for $13K and not 
used. There should be no additional cost in GMP 2.
This has already been discussed. Cal-OSHA requires the project to have shade/rain cover 
for the on-site craft workforce, which will double as a lunch/break area.  Sundt has not 
yet put up this temporary structure carried in GMP-1 as the planned demo of the existing 
metal building was intentionally delayed fulfilling this requirement. Due to the Class 1 
Contaminated Soil expanded boundary, the metal building was demo’d last week.  Sundt 
has already initiated the procurement process to install a commercial wind 
rated/waterproof covered shade structure.   The GMP-2 budget is to carry the 
lease/maintenance cost of this temporary structure over the 6 month period. 
We had further discussion on this after the call. The cost 
in GMP 1 and 2 shall be carried for purchase, without an 
increase in GMP 3. We can discuss this further as there 
were some ideas proposed.
Acknowleded with exception.  The GMP 1 and 2 
budget will be used to purchase and install a 800 sq. ft. 
tempoary facility and related maintenance costs 
through GMP-2.  This will provide capacity for ~50 
construction craft.   The cost for GMP-3 will be 
established during the GMP budget development 
process.  It will most likely require funding for another 
lunch tent facility to handle the GMP-3 construction 
headcount increases and maintenance costs. 
9
Light plant was funded under GMP 1 for $21K and not 
used. There should be no additional cost in GMP 2.  
Temporary lighting plants were used in GMP-1 when work hours in December/January 
extended past 5 pm.  Also, as part of the GMP-1, additional temporary lighting is in the 
works to be installed adjacent to the Dewatering Treatment System to better allow for 
inspection/troubleshooting/repair after daylight hours.   The two City street light poles 
facing Detroit across from the storage facility will also need refed from the temporary 
power source which will be carried by the GMP-1 budget.   (Note: The separate two light 
poles facing the site were included in the temporary power plan to be refed).  
With regards to GMP-2, the 6 month covered time span includes the months of 
December/January where additional light plants for specific tasks will be necessary past 
5 pm.   Also, this covers interim refeeding of 2 additional Detroit Rd Street lights on the 
north side of the existing plant that will become de-energized once PG&E cuts off power 
to the permanently closed section of Detroit.  If the City/Jacobs desires, Sundt is fine with 
executing all the GMP-2 Temporary lighting needs under a T&M basis and relinquishing 
the associated risk of this $8.3K budget line item.  CMAR staffing costs to execute T&M 
will be included. 
Cost to be maintained as shown in the 2/27 General 
Conditions summary. Explanation in the summary to be 
clarified.
Acknowledged.  Costs will be maintained and will the 
lighting will be used for temporary lighting.  
10
Small tools were funded under GMP 1 for $27K. There 
should be no additional cost in GMP 2. 
Sundt utilizes internal data and benchmarking to establish historical unit rate per labor 
hour expended to establish the small tools budget on all projects.  The rates used in the 
2/28 GMP-2 cost submission were reduced over 50% from the previous 12/18 GMP-2 
submission to account for the PLA and subcontracting of the Work in lieu of self-perform. 
Sundt, as the project CMAR/GC still has a need for small tools, and these needs continue 
through the duration of the project.  Sundt feels the $15.3K budget for this line item is fair 
to cover on-going small tools through GMP-2.   
The rate basis proposed for GMP 2 is acceptable, but 
shall be applied to GMP 1 (through an Owner 
Contingency Credit) and GMP 3. The City is interested 
in keeping any purchased small tools at the end of the 
project that could be used by their Maintenance Group.
Acknowledged.  The GMP -1 Small Tools credit was 
included in the resubmitted GMP-1 Change Request 
OC-09 that covers multiple GR line item credits.
11
Please explain the need for Safety Barricades ($11K) 
beyond the traffic control devices being provided by the 
traffic control sub.
This budget line items carries the anticipated amount of Safety barricading to protect on-
site construction, temporary created site hazards (i.e. trenching, fall protection, tower 
crane) and protection of installed equipment/assets.  Barricading will be needed down in 
the mass ex area to protect select piles and the deeper excavations areas (Actiflo, Elevator 
Shaft, Drain Sumps).  If the City/Jacobs desires, Sundt is fine with executing all the GMP-
2 Safety Barricading under a T&M basis and relinquishing the associated risk of this $11K 
budget line item.  CMAR staffing costs to execute T&M will be included. 
Cost to be maintained as shown in the 2/27 General 
Conditions summary.
Acknowledged.
46T003_GMP2_Comments Adjudication_Final_03.03.20.xlsm
2 of 2
&nbsp;
128 of&nbsp;574

--- page 129 ---
~

Wd ae

—GMP2 Construction Schedule



--- page 130 ---
San Mateo WWTP
GMP 2 Schedule and Narrative Report
P a g e  | 1
City of San Mateo, CA
San Mateo WWTP Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow 
Management Upgrade and Expansion Project
 
City of San Mateo Project No. 10048652
GMP 2 Preliminary Schedule Narrative
* Project Milestone Dates
            Notice to Proceed GMP 2: 
    04-07-20
            Substantial Completion GMP 2: 
   11-17-21
             Final Completion GMP 2: 
                01-21-22
* Final Contract dates for GMP-2 will be based upon the approved GMP-2 Baseline Construction Schedule    
that will be submitted after the GMP-2 Notice to Proceed milestone.      
Project No. 161925
130 of 574

--- page 131 ---
San Mateo WWTP
GMP 2 Schedule and Narrative Report
P a g e  | 2
Contents
2.0 - INTRODUCTION.........................................................................................................3
3.0 - CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS ................................................................................4
3.1 - Agreement Documents..................................................................................................4
3.2 - Responsibility and Right to Early Completion...........................................................4
3.3 - Delay and Time Extension............................................................................................4
3.4 - Activity Duration and Work Hours.............................................................................5
3.5 - The Calendar System ....................................................................................................5
3.7 - Holidays..........................................................................................................................6
3.8 - Activity Coding..............................................................................................................6
3.9 - Project Permits ..............................................................................................................6
3.10 - Long Lead Items..........................................................................................................7
4.0 - CONSTRUCTION PLAN AND STRATEGY............................................................7
4.1 - Major Work Breakdown Group Items .......................................................................7
4.2 - Crew Utilization and Leveling......................................................................................7
5.0 - SUNDT ’S SCHEDULE STRUCTURE ......................................................................8
5.1 - Network Structure.........................................................................................................8
5.2 - Activity ID......................................................................................................................8
5.3 - Resource .........................................................................................................................8
6.0 - CRITICAL ASPECTS OF THE WORK....................................................................8
6.1 - Critical path ...................................................................................................................8
6.2 - Contract Milestones ......................................................................................................9
6.3 - Activity Constraints ......................................................................................................9
6.4 - GMP 2 Schedule Assumptions .....................................................................................9
6.5 - Float ................................................................................................................................9
6.6 - Resource Loading........................................................................................................10
7.0 - Project Schedule Updates ...........................................................................................10
7.1 - Design Progression Schedules ....................................................................................10
7.2 - Pull Planning................................................................................................................10
8.0 - CONCLUSION............................................................................................................11
1.0 - EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
131 of 574

--- page 132 ---
San Mateo WWTP
GMP 2 Schedule and Narrative Report
P a g e  | 3
The San Mateo WWTP Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow Management Upgrade and 
Expansion Project is located in the City of San Mateo, CA. The City of San Mateo (“Owner”) 
and SUNDT Construction (“Construction Manager”) has entered into a Contract for the 
planning, procurement and construction of the San Mateo WWTP Nutrient Removal and Wet 
Weather Flow Management Upgrade and Expansion Project. This GMP 2 schedule is based on 
City Notice to Proceed (NTP) occurring no later than April 7, 2020 and will be substantially 
complete by November 17, 2021 with final completion January 21, 2022.  The Substantial and 
Final completion dates on the subsequent Baseline Construction Schedule will be submitted after 
the GMP-2 NTP milestone, will be amended into the Prime Contract and serve as the dates for 
Liquidated Damages.  
The scope of GMP 2 includes construction activities primarily center on Pile Driving and other 
peripheral construction scope including Sheet Pile perimeter installation and excavation for the 
lower elevation ActiFlo area and the Elevator Pit, large diameter drilling and steel sleeve 
installation for the Process Drain Sumps, Tower Crane installation, and other miscellaneous 
construction support activities.
GMP-2 includes driving Precast Concrete Piles in the lower elevation areas and the higher 
elevation areas, distinguished by Phase 1 Piles and Phase 2 Piles. The scope also includes 
installation of Piles for the tower crane foundation and the large diameter Yard Piping adjacent 
to the new WWTP structure. 
2.0 - INTRODUCTION 
The GMP 2 Schedule and Narrative have been prepared in conformance with City of San Mateo, 
Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow Management Upgrade and Expansion Project Prime 
Contract and GMP-2 Specifications Spec # (01 32 16). The intent of this narrative is to achieve 
the following objectives:
1. To explain fundamental concepts that will form the basis for SUNDT’s GMP-2 Baseline 
Construction Schedule that will be submitted after GMP-2 Notice to Proceed.
2. To describe SUNDT’s construction plan and strategy for the completion of the GMP-2 
scope in a timely and cost-effective manner. 
132 of 574

--- page 133 ---
San Mateo WWTP
GMP 2 Schedule and Narrative Report
P a g e  | 4
3. To explain SUNDT’s GMP 2 Bid Construction schedule based on the contract documents 
This schedule does not include any allowance for changes and/or delays with the exception of 
weather day allowances discussed in subsequent sections. Consequently, any such changes are not 
reflected in these documents. Any agreements made and conditions encountered in the field may 
impact many aspects of the project schedule. Therefore, this schedule and narrative report is a 
management tool that will continue to evolve throughout the duration of the Contract.
3.0 - CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS 
This section discusses certain Contract requirements that SUNDT relied on in developing its 
Contract Bid Construction Schedule for the Project. This section also outlines the procedures that 
SUNDT will follow to maintain and submit Monthly Schedule Updates as required by the contract.
3.1 - Agreement Documents
SUNDT prepared and submitted this GMP 2 Schedule relying on the information provided by 
the Owner. SUNDT relied on the Owner providing accurate and complete Agreement 
Documents that include a constructible set of plans and specifications from which all elements 
of the Work can be constructed. SUNDT also relied on the fact that the Agreement Documents 
accurately and completely communicated all the obligations that the Owner and SUNDT are 
expected to perform under the Agreement.
3.2 - Responsibility and Right to Early Completion 
SUNDT has control over its means and methods and has the right to sequence the Work and to 
utilize resources in the most efficient manner. Thus, SUNDT has the authority to modify its 
construction means, methods, techniques, sequence and procedures to address the needs of the 
Project. SUNDT is responsible for the ultimate planning and scheduling of the Project and has 
developed its GMP 2 Schedule in order to perform the Work in the most efficient manner and 
in compliance with the Agreement Documents. 
3.3 - Delay and Time Extension 
The Contract Documents indicate that a time extension will be granted to SUNDT due to events 
beyond SUNDT’s control that delay critical items of work. The analysis of a delay event is to 
133 of 574

--- page 134 ---
San Mateo WWTP
GMP 2 Schedule and Narrative Report
P a g e  | 5
be performed on contemporaneous information and a decision concerning such delays should 
be made at the time of the delay as specified in the contract document. 
In case of a delay to a critical item of work for reasons within SUNDT’s control, SUNDT will 
submit a recovery schedule as required by the contract. 
In case of a delay to a critical item of work due to reasons beyond SUNDT’s control, SUNDT 
will inform the Owner’s representatives and provide the proper and timely time extension 
request, including, submitting a Time Impact Analysis (TIA) and a corresponding Narrative 
Report. 
3.4 - Activity Duration and Work Hours  
SUNDT’s GMP 2 Schedule was developed using historical data relating to productions and 
resources required for this type of work. Every project is unique; thus, experience and judgment 
has been used to adapt this information to the existing conditions of this project, typical area 
weather patterns, and to current market conditions.
SUNDT’s GMP 2 Schedule is primarily based on working 5 days per week, and Saturday work 
at SUNDT’s discretion with City approval. Standard work hours are 7am – 5pm.   All heavy 
noise producing activities including Pile Driving Operations will be limited to 9am – 5pm.
3.5 - The Calendar System
In its planning and scheduling and in accordance with contract requirements Spec# (01 32 16-
6 Paragraph 2), Sundt has accounted for all standard holidays and other planned non-workdays 
or periods using two distinct work calendars. No additional time has been allocated to the work 
activity durations to account for any non-work periods, impacts or other changes. The following 
calendars are included in the 100% GMP 2 schedule. Additional calendars may be added as the 
project schedule progresses.
1. Calendar 1: 5 days/week – Single shift day with San Mateo Holidays
2. Calendar 2: 7 days/week 24 hours/day, 
Anticipated adverse weather data was taken from the National Weather Service website 
(https://www.weather.gov/climate/index.php?wfo=mtr). The data was analyzed and SUNDT 
134 of 574

--- page 135 ---
San Mateo WWTP
GMP 2 Schedule and Narrative Report
P a g e  | 6
has included a 15-day weather allowance for the GMP 2 schedule.  The Contract provisions 
around requesting additional weather days beyond the allowance will be followed. 
3.7 - Holidays
Holidays reflect Sundt’s current paid holiday schedule. As the schedule progresses additional 
holidays customary to local union labor market will be included as required by the PLA. 
New Year's Day 
January
MLK Day
January
President’s day 
February
Good Friday
April
Memorial Day (Day Before)
May
Memorial Day 
May
Independence Day 
July
Independence Day (Day After)
July
Labor Day (Day Before)
September
Labor Day 
September
Veterans’ Day
November
Thanksgiving Day 
November
Day after Thanksgiving 
November
Christmas Eve 
December
Christmas Day
December
New Year’s Eve
December
3.8 - Activity Coding  
The activities in the GMP 2schedule have been assigned the proper activity codes in order to 
help organize, manage and extract information from the schedule.  The Baseline Construction 
Schedule activity coding will follow Spec # 01 32 16-5 Paragraph B.
3.9 - Project Permits 
In preparing this GMP 2 Schedule, SUNDT has relied on the Owner to obtain certain required 
permits, as outlined in the Specification. The Owner is responsible for maintaining these permits 
through the duration of the Project.
135 of 574

--- page 136 ---
San Mateo WWTP
GMP 2 Schedule and Narrative Report
P a g e  | 7
3.10 - Long Lead Items 
SUNDT intends to minimize the Shop Drawing and Submittals review and approval durations 
to the extent possible. Maximum review and approval durations are included in the 
Specifications.  Expediting this process may involve “on-board” reviews to clarify information 
or “revise and resubmit.  This typically allows for one full review cycle and a short, added 
resubmittal cycle if needed.  
4.0 - CONSTRUCTION PLAN AND STRATEGY
This section of the GMP 2 Schedule Narrative explains SUNDT’s major construction 
operations, estimated productions, and respective assumptions made at GMP time based on 
Owner provided Agreement Documents. In order to summarize the information of the schedule, 
eight major groups, items or locations have been created as follows:
4.1 - Major Work Breakdown Group Items 
CONTRACT MILESTONES
PROJECT MILESTONES
OWNER ACTIVITES
PERMITTING
PRECONSTRUCTION
PROCUREMENT
CONSTRUCTION
4.2 - Crew Utilization and Leveling
It is imperative to the efficiency of the work that all resources be employed as they become 
available in an area requiring their utilization. It is also imperative that, if unforeseen events 
force resources to shut down, or if resources could be better utilized in areas different from 
scheduled or current assignments, Sundt must be able to employ these resources in a 
reasonable manner which allows appropriate progression of the work while honoring the logic 
driven relationships between the activities.  Impacts to Sundt’s resource utilization could 
affect the job duration and efficiency.  The GMP 2 Schedule accomplishes this goal by using 
schedule logic to model logic-based relationships and preferential logic to model preferential 
sequencing and resource limitations.
136 of 574

--- page 137 ---
San Mateo WWTP
GMP 2 Schedule and Narrative Report
P a g e  | 8
5.0 - SUNDT ’S SCHEDULE STRUCTURE
5.1 - Network Structure 
SUNDT has developed a computerized Critical Path Method (CPM) Schedule using Primavera 
Systems ®, Inc., v17.8.0 ® 2017. The GMP 2 Schedule has been developed using the 
Precedence Diagramming Method (PDM) and complies with Pre-Construction Contract 
requirements.5.2 - Activity ID
In the schedule, the Activity ID is used to differentiate one schedule activity from another and 
to divide activities into logical groupings. 
6.0 - CRITICAL ASPECTS OF THE WORK 
6.1 - Critical path 
The GMP-2 Critical Path begins with the City issuing NTP and ends with Final Completion per 
Spec # (01-32-16-7 Paragraph 4). The following items are on the critical path: Pile Foundations, 
and Installation of Tower Crane Base.
The list of all Critical Path activities from the GMP 2 schedule can be found in Appendix A – 
Preliminary Critical Path Activities. 
The GMP 2 Schedule can be found in Appendix B – GMP 2 Preliminary Schedule
6.2 - Contract Milestones
SUNDT GMP 2 Schedule milestones per submitted Preliminary Schedule include:
* Final Contract Milestone dates for GMP-2 will be based upon the approved GMP-2 Baseline Construction 
Schedule that will be submitted after GMP NTP release.  
Milestone
*Date
GMP 2 – Construction Notice to Proceed 
07-Apr-20
GMP 2 – Substantial Completion
17-Nov-21
GMP 2– Final Completion
21-Jan-22
137 of 574

--- page 138 ---
San Mateo WWTP
GMP 2 Schedule and Narrative Report
P a g e  | 9
6.3 - Activity Constraints
The following activity constraints are currently embedded in the GMP 2 schedule:
1.
CMS001600 – GMP 2 – Notice to Proceed (04/07/20) – Finish on or After
2.
CMS001701 – GMP 2 – Substantial Completion (11/19/21) – Finish on or Before
3.
CMS000180 – GMP 2 – Final Completion (1/21/22) – Finish on or Before
    
 6.4 - GMP 2 Schedule Assumptions
The GMP 2 Schedule is based on the following assumptions which are included in the cost basis 
for this project:
1.
GMP 2 Notice to Proceed (NTP) – April 7, 2020
2. Pile Foundation Permit to be obtained and RFC Construction Document Revisions to be 
released by March 17, 2020
3.
Weather Days incorporated into the schedule include 15 working days over the GMP 2 
project duration.
6.5 - Float
The GMP 2 Schedule for this project was developed with Zero total float on the critical path.
6.6 - Resource Loading
This version of the project schedule has projected resources. Completion of resource loading 
will occur once the GMP-2 subcontractors are awarded and the Last Planner sessions are 
complete, as defined in Section 7.2.  The subsequent Baseline Construction schedule will be 
developed and follow the Prime Contract requirements and Specification # 01 32 16.
7.0 - Project Schedule Updates
 
7.1 - Design Progression Schedules 
138 of 574

--- page 139 ---
San Mateo WWTP
GMP 2 Schedule and Narrative Report
P a g e  | 10
Upon NTP release, this GMP 2 Schedule will be updated and will transition into the GMP-2 
Baseline Construction Schedule submittal as defined in the Contract. This Schedule was based 
upon the released GMP-2 RFC Design documents.  Any subsequent Design Addendum 
releases will be captured in the GMP-2 Baseline Construction schedule through the monthly 
schedule update process.
7.2 - Pull Planning 
The GMP-2 Construction Baseline Schedule will be developed and updated using the Last 
Planner System ™ Pull Planning.  The Last Planner System ™ is part of Sundt Procedure and 
commitment to complete the project on time and within Budget.  
Pull Planning is a collaborative meeting process that adds detail to the Master Project Schedule 
and identifies predictable workflow and constraints. Through this series of meetings, we plan 
the construction process by starting at the finish line with the proposed complete project as a 
goal on the right side of the schedule and “pull” backwards (to the left) to intelligently and 
systematically determine every step necessary to achieve that completion. This contrasts the 
traditional planning style of "pushing" a project through production without first having a clear 
view of what is really required. 
Our Sundt’s Project Manager, Project Engineer(s), and Superintendent(s) as well as each 
subcontractor’s assigned field supervision (The Last Planner) for every trade participate in the 
Pull Planning sessions. This collaborative environment is not intended to recreate the milestone 
schedule, but rather serves to validate existing construction sequences, durations and can further 
define the construction schedule by adding or breaking down activities that may initially have 
been generalized and identify any areas that require reevaluation. The overall outcome is a 
schedule developed through a collaborative team approach that will serve as basis of the 
Baseline Schedule that will be submitted and approved after NTP release. Any subsequent 
schedule changes that modify the Contract Milestones in Section 6.2 will require advance 
approval by the Owner prior to adjusting the Baseline Schedule   All other required schedule 
changes to the Baseline Schedule not impacting these Contract Milestone dates will be made 
and captured in the next subsequent monthly schedule update.   
139 of 574

--- page 140 ---
San Mateo WWTP
GMP 2 Schedule and Narrative Report
P a g e  | 11
8.0 - CONCLUSION
This GMP 2 Schedule and Narrative demonstrates SUNDT’s plan to accomplish its project 
schedule goals while satisfying the requirements of the Contract Documents. Any change or 
alteration to the contract or scope could have corresponding impact on SUNDT’s planned 
construction methods, schedule, cost, resource assignments, and /or time for completion of the 
work. This narrative describes SUNDT’s intended plan, work process, and general 
understanding of its schedule and performance obligations as required by the anticipated 
Contract. This narrative has been prepared to clarify SUNDT’s intent for performing the work 
and should be used and interpreted in conjunction with this GMP-2 Schedule, and the Baseline 
Construction Schedule that will be submitted after Owner Notice to Proceed.  Once the Baseline 
Construction Schedule is approved and the project is in Construction, the schedule will be 
accurately progressed on a Monthly basis and should be used as a management tool by all 
parties.
140 of 574

--- page 141 ---
San Mateo WWTP - GMP-2 Schedule                                  Revised 2/26/20
2020
2021
2022
Mar
Apr
May
Jun
Jul
Aug
Sep
Oct
Nov
Dec
Jan
Feb
Mar
Apr
May
Jun
Jul
Aug
Sep
Oct
Nov
Dec
Jan
GMP-2 Procurement & Construction Schedule
Phase 1 Pile Driving (Lower Elevation Piles, Drilling, Excavation)
City GMP-2 Formal NTP Release to CMAR
GMP-2 Pile Subcontract Negotiations & Execution 
Pile Subcontractor & Fabricator Design Submittal
Engineer Review & Approval - Pile Submittal
Public Outreach Neighborhood Meeting
Pre-condition Inspection/Report of adjacent structures by "Specialty Engineer"
Survey of established monitoring points around perimeter of the site
Setup and maintain four (4) Vibration Monitoring Points
Setup and maintain 24' high temporary sound wall
Fabricate, Cure, and Deliver Indicator Piles - Phase 1 - (First 5 Piles)
Top Mass Ex Lime Stabilized Surface with 4" Thick AB (by Earthwork sub)
Mobilize Pile Driving Equipment - Pile Rig #1
Drive Phase 1 Indicator Piles, PDA Testing, Re-tapping,  CAPWAP Report
 
-
Engineer Review & Approval - Indicator PDA/CAPWAP Report
Fabricate, Cure, and Deliver "PDA Non-Dependent" Production Piles - Phase 1
Fabricate, Cure, and Deliver "PDA Dependent" Production Piles - Phase 1
Drive Phase 1 "PDA Non-Dependent" Production Piles - Pile Rig #1
Drive Phase 1 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles - Pile Rig #1
Drive Tower Crane Piles - Crew #1
FRP Tower Crane Concrete Foundation  (by Concrete sub)
Tower Crane Erection & Testing (by Tower Crane sub)
Tower Crane Power Hook-up (by Elec sub)
Mobilize Pile Driving Equipment - Pile Rig #2
Drive Phase 1 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles - Pile Rig #2
Drive Recessed Drain Sump "Non-Dependent PDA" Piles w/follower bar (4 -Piles)
Mobilize Drilling Rig (Drilling Sub)
Drill and Install Steel Casing for Drain Sumps - 4 locations (by Drilling Sub)
Drive Recessed Actiflo "PDA Dependent" Piles w/follower bar (52 -Piles)
Drive/Vibrate Actiflo Process Area Perimeter Sheet Piles
Excavate Actiflo Process Area to lower FFE level (by Earthwork sub)
Drive Elevator Shaft Recessed "PDA Dependent" Piles w/follower bar (15 -Piles)
Drive/Vibrate Elevator Shaft Perimeter Sheet Pile
Excavate Elevator Shaft area to lower FFE level - (by Earthwork sub)
Demobilize Pile Driving Equipment - Pile Rig #2
Remove Temporary Sound Wall
Demobilize Pile Driving Equipment - Pile Rig #1
Install Phase 1 Pile Rebar Hooks
 
Construct Exterior Walls, Backfill, Subgrade for Higher Elev Piles (GMP-3 scope)
        
Phase 2 Pile Driving (Higher Elevation Piles)
Fabricate, Cure, and Deliver Indicator Piles - Phase 2 (Remaining 5 Piles)
Drive Phase 2 Indicator Piles, PDA Testing, Re-tapping, CAPWAP Report
Engineer Review & Approval - Indicator PDA Report
Fabricate, Cure, and Deliver "PDA Dependent" Production Piles - Phase 2
Survey of established monitoring points around perimeter of the site
Setup and maintain four (4) Vibration Monitoring Points
Setup and maintain 16' high temporary sound wall
Public Outreach Neighborhood Meeting
Re-Mobilize Pile Driving Equipment - Pile Rig #1
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles  - Area 51/64  Headworks/Odor
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles  - Area 56/70 MBR/Chem 
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles  - Area 56 Electrical
Drive Yard Piping Piles  - (15 Piles)
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles  - Area 80 Admin
Demobilize Pile Driving Equipment - Pile Rig #1
Install Phase 2 Pile Rebar Hooks
Post condition Inspection/Report of adjacent structures by "Specialty Engineer"
GMP-2  Schedule Carried Rain Days (15 working days)
Phase 2 Pile Driving (Higher Elevations)
Indicator Test Piles (5 Piles)
Production Piles (517 Piles)
(Average Productivity Rate ~10 Piles/Day per Pile Rig)
Notes
1.) 16' High Temporary Sound Wall on West Property Line
2.) Vibration Monitoring through Phase 2 Pile Driving
3.) Variance to Noise Ordinance approved by City
Phase 1 Pile Driving (Lower Elevations)
Indicator Test Piles (5 Piles)
Production Piles (1,433 Piles)
(Average Productivity Rate ~10 Piles/Day per Pile Rig)
Notes
1.) 24' High Temporary Sound Wall on West Shoring Section during Phase 1
2.) Vibration Monitoring through Phase 1 Pile Driving
3.) Variance to Noise Ordinance approved by City
By Concrete, Yard Piping, & Earthwork Sub (GMP-3)
GMP-2 Procurement & Construction
Site Vibration Monitoring
1/21/22 Final Complete
11/12/21 Substanital Complete
4/7/20 Owner NTP
Temporary Sound Wall - 24' HIgh
No Site Pile Driving Activity
Site Pile Driving Activity
Site Pile Driving Activity
No Site Pile Driving Activity
5 months
Temporary Sound Wall - 16' HIgh
Site Vibration Monitoring
8/1/20 GMP-1 Lime Stabilized Subbase Complete
12/1/20 GMP-3 First Concrete Milestone
141 of 574

--- page 142 ---
Activity ID
Activity Name
OD Start
Finish
San Mateo 
San Mateo WWTP Schedule - GMP 2 Submittal
639 31-Oct-19 A
09-Jun-22
CONTRACT M
CONTRACT MILESTONES
440 07-Apr-20
21-Jan-22
GMP 2
GMP 2
440 07-Apr-20
21-Jan-22
CMS001600
GMP 2 - City Issue NTP
0 07-Apr-20*
CMS001701
GMP 2 - Substantial Completion (Pile Foundation)
0
17-Nov-21*
CMS000180
GMP 2 - Final Completion (Pile Foundation)
0
21-Jan-22*
PROJECT MI
PROJECT MILESTONES
504 31-Oct-19 A
17-Nov-21
ES000380
CMAR Subcontractor Bid Process/ GMP 2 Submittal
21 31-Oct-19 A
28-Feb-20
CMS000005
GMP 2 Package Submittal
0 02-Mar-20
CMS001711
Letter of Intent
0
16-Mar-20*
Weather Day
Weather Days
15 27-Oct-21
17-Nov-21
WD100030
GMP 2 Weather Days (15 day allowance)
15 27-Oct-21
17-Nov-21
OWNER ACT
OWNER ACTIVITIES
319 02-Mar-20
15-Jun-21
OW000020
GMP 2 City Council/Staff Review
25 02-Mar-20
03-Apr-20
OW000060
City Council Meeting - GMP 2
0 06-Apr-20
ES000280
City Funding Approval & NTP Release
1 06-Apr-20
06-Apr-20
OW001111
Public Outreach Neighborhood Meeting - Phase 1 Piles Scope
1 21-Jul-20
21-Jul-20
4C3200730
Public Outreach Neighborhood Meeting - Phase 2 Piles Scope
1 15-Jun-21*
15-Jun-21
DESIGN
DESIGN
90 31-Oct-19 A
17-Mar-20
GMP 2
GMP 2
90 31-Oct-19 A
17-Mar-20
ES000375
Permit and RFC Design Revisions for Pile Foundation
90 31-Oct-19 A
17-Mar-20
PRECONSTR
PRECONSTRUCTION
308 06-Apr-20
06-Jul-21
GMP 2
GMP 2
308 06-Apr-20
06-Jul-21
GMP 2 Precon
GMP 2 Preconstruction
308 06-Apr-20
06-Jul-21
ES000400
CMAR Sub Contracting Development & Execution
19 06-Apr-20
01-May-20
A6230
Subcontractor Submittals for Environmental Protections and Special Conditions
23 14-Apr-20
14-May-20
A6240
Subcontractor Submittals for Wind and Seismic Criteria
23 14-Apr-20
14-May-20
A6250
Subcontractor Submittals for Precast Prestressed Concrete Driven Pilling
23 14-Apr-20
14-May-20
A6260
Subcontract Submittals for Pre and Post Construction Surveys and Monitoring
23 14-Apr-20
14-May-20
A6270
Engineer Review and Approval for Environmental Protections and Special Conditions
31 15-May-20
30-Jun-20
A6280
Engineer Review and Approval for Wind and Seismic Criteria
31 15-May-20
30-Jun-20
A6290
Engineer Review and Approval for Precast Prestressed Concrete Driven Pilling
31 15-May-20
30-Jun-20
A6300
Engineer Review and Approval for Pre and Post Construction Surveys and Monitoring
31 15-May-20
30-Jun-20
Drive Phase 1 
Drive Phase 1 Submit/Rev/Fab
178 07-Apr-20
23-Dec-20
DS270
Subcontractor  Submittals - Pile Design Submittal
11 07-Apr-20
22-Apr-20
DS280
Engineer Review & Approval - Subcon Submittal
15 23-Apr-20
13-May-20
DS260
Fabricate, Cure and Deliver Indicator Piles - Phase 1 - (First 5 Piles)
55 14-May-20
03-Aug-20
DS300
Fabricate, Cure, and Deliver "PDA Non-Dependent" Production Piles - Phase 1
55 01-Jun-20
17-Aug-20
N
Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug
S
Oct
N
Dec Jan
F
Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct
N
Dec Jan
F Mar Apr May Jun
2020
2021
2022
GMP 2 - City Issue NTP
GMP 2 - Substantial Completion
GMP 2 - Final Comple
CMAR Subcontractor Bid Process/ GMP 2 Submittal
GMP 2 Package Submittal
Letter of Intent
GMP 2 Weather Days (15 day all
GMP 2 City Council/Staff Review
City Council Meeting - GMP 2
City Funding Approval & NTP Release
Public Outreach Neighborhood Meeting - Phase 1 Piles Scope
Public Outreach Neighborhood Meeting - Phase 2 Piles 
Permit and RFC Design Revisions for Pile Foundation
CMAR Sub Contracting Development & Execution
Subcontractor Submittals for Environmental Protections and Special Conditions
Subcontractor Submittals for Wind and Seismic Criteria
Subcontractor Submittals for Precast Prestressed Concrete Driven Pilling
Subcontract Submittals for Pre and Post Construction Surveys and Monitoring
Engineer Review and Approval for Environmental Protections and Special Conditions
Engineer Review and Approval for Wind and Seismic Criteria
Engineer Review and Approval for Precast Prestressed Concrete Driven Pilling
Engineer Review and Approval for Pre and Post Construction Surveys and Monitoring
Subcontractor  Submittals - Pile Design Submittal
Engineer Review & Approval - Subcon Submittal
Fabricate, Cure and Deliver Indicator Piles - Phase 1 - (First 5 Piles)
Fabricate, Cure, and Deliver "PDA Non-Dependent" Production Piles - Phase 1
Date - 27-Feb-20
Page 1 of 4  
 Sundt Construction, Inc.
 2620 South 55th Street, Tempe, AZ  85282
San Mateo WWTP Schedule - GMP 2 Submittal
Project Schedule
Critical Remaining Work
Remaining Work
Milestone
Remaining Level of Effort
Actual Work
&nbsp;
142 of&nbsp;574

--- page 143 ---
Activity ID
Activity Name
OD Start
Finish
DS240
Engineer Review and Approval - Indicator PDA / CAPWAP Report
15 01-Sep-20
23-Sep-20
DS460
Fabricate, Cure, and Deliver "PDA Dependent" Production Piles - Phase 1
62 24-Sep-20
23-Dec-20
Drive Phase 2 
Drive Phase 2 Submit/Rev/Fab
156 13-Nov-20
06-Jul-21
DS380
Fabricate, Cure and Deliver Indicator Piles - Phase 2
30 13-Nov-20
30-Dec-20
DS420
Engineer Review & Approval - Indicator PDA Report
22 02-Feb-21
04-Mar-21
DS390
Fabricate, Cure and Deliver Production Piles - Phase 2
84 05-Mar-21
06-Jul-21
CONSTRUCT
CONSTRUCTION
477 01-Jul-20
09-Jun-22
GMP 2
GMP 2
477 01-Jul-20
09-Jun-22
GMP 2 Summa
GMP 2 Summary Activities
299 16-Jul-20
30-Sep-21
Piles Summary
Piles Summary
262 25-Aug-20
17-Sep-21
DS490
Drive Phase 1 "PDA Non-Dependent" Production Piles - Pile Rig #1
55 25-Aug-20
12-Nov-20
DS310
Drive Phase 1 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles - Pile Rig #2
46 15-Oct-20
22-Dec-20
DS250
Drive Phase 1 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles - Pile Rig #1
47 13-Nov-20
27-Jan-21
DS100
No Site Pile Driving
103 02-Feb-21
30-Jun-21
DS405
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles  - Pile Rig #1
54 01-Jul-21
17-Sep-21
Sound Wall Sum
Sound Wall Summary
267 16-Jul-20
13-Aug-21
DS690
Maintain 24' high temporary sound wall
131 16-Jul-20
28-Jan-21
DS691
Remove 24' Temporary high sound wall
12 29-Jan-21
16-Feb-21
DS692
Setup and Maintain 16' high temporary sound wall
103 02-Mar-21
28-Jul-21
DS693
Remove 16' Temporary high sound wall
12 29-Jul-21
13-Aug-21
Monitoring Sum
Monitoring Summary
299 16-Jul-20
30-Sep-21
DS670
Phase 1 - Survey of established monitoring points around perimeter of the site
131 16-Jul-20
28-Jan-21
DS680
Setup and maintain Vibration Monitoring Points
257 16-Jul-20
30-Jul-21
DS700
Phase 2 - Survey of established monitoring points around perimeter of the site
63 01-Jul-21
30-Sep-21
4C3201210
GMP 2 - Substantial Completion NA
0
30-Sep-21
Phase 1 - Pile
Phase 1 - Pile Driving (Lower Elevation Piles)
298 01-Jul-20
15-Sep-21
DS660
Pre-condition Inspection/Report of adjacent structures
10 01-Jul-20
15-Jul-20
Drive Phase 1 
Drive Phase 1 Production Piles - Crew # 1
285 21-Jul-20
15-Sep-21
DS290
Mobilize Pile Driving Equipment - Crew # 1
10 21-Jul-20
03-Aug-20
DS230
Drive Phase 1 Indicator Piles, PDA Testing, Re-Tapping
20 04-Aug-20
31-Aug-20
DS470
Drive Tower Crane Piles - Crew #1
5 11-Aug-20
17-Aug-20
DS480
Drive Recessed Drain Sump "Non-Dependent PDA" Piles w/follower bar (4 -Piles)
5 18-Aug-20
24-Aug-20
DS570
FRP Tower Crane Concrete Foundation  (by Concrete sub)
11 18-Aug-20
01-Sep-20
DS500
Drill and Install Steel Casing for Drain Sumps - 4 locations (by Drilling Sub)
10 25-Aug-20
09-Sep-20
DS580
Tower Crane Erection & Testing (by Tower Crane sub)
12 02-Sep-20
21-Sep-20
DS590
Tower Crane Power Hook-up (by Elec sub)
8 09-Sep-20
18-Sep-20
Drive Phase 1 "
Drive Phase 1 "PDA Non-Dependent" Production Piles - Pile Rig #1 - SEQUENCE
150 25-Aug-20
07-Apr-21
DS490-ND01
(Zone 1) North (46 piles)
5 25-Aug-20
31-Aug-20
DS490-ND02
(Zone 2) North to South WEST (100 piles)
10 01-Sep-20
16-Sep-20
DS490-ND03
(Zone 3) North to South EAST (100 piles)
10 17-Sep-20
30-Sep-20
DS490-ND04
(Zone 4) North to South WEST (100 piles)
10 01-Oct-20
14-Oct-20
N
Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug
S
Oct
N
Dec Jan
F
Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct
N
Dec Jan
F Mar Apr May Jun
2020
2021
2022
Engineer Review and Approval - Indicator PDA / CAPWAP Report
Fabricate, Cure, and Deliver "PDA Dependent" Production Piles - Phase 1
Fabricate, Cure and Deliver Indicator Piles - Phase 2
Engineer Review & Approval - Indicator PDA Report
Fabricate, Cure and Deliver Production Piles - Phase
Drive Phase 1 "PDA Non-Dependent" Production Piles - Pile Rig #1
Drive Phase 1 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles - Pile Rig #2
Drive Phase 1 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles - Pile Rig #1
No Site Pile Driving
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Producti
Maintain 24' high temporary sound wall
Remove 24' Temporary high sound wall
Setup and Maintain 16' high temporary sound wal
Remove 16' Temporary high sound wall
Phase 1 - Survey of established monitoring points around perimeter of the site
Setup and maintain Vibration Monitoring Points
Phase 2 - Survey of established monitori
GMP 2 - Substantial Completion NA
Pre-condition Inspection/Report of adjacent structures
Mobilize Pile Driving Equipment - Crew # 1
Drive Phase 1 Indicator Piles, PDA Testing, Re-Tapping
Drive Tower Crane Piles - Crew #1
Drive Recessed Drain Sump "Non-Dependent PDA" Piles w/follower bar (4 -Piles)
FRP Tower Crane Concrete Foundation  (by Concrete sub)
Drill and Install Steel Casing for Drain Sumps - 4 locations (by Drilling Sub)
Tower Crane Erection & Testing (by Tower Crane sub)
Tower Crane Power Hook-up (by Elec sub)
(Zone 1) North (46 piles)
(Zone 2) North to South WEST (100 piles)
(Zone 3) North to South EAST (100 piles)
(Zone 4) North to South WEST (100 piles)
Date - 27-Feb-20
Page 2 of 4  
&nbsp;
143 of&nbsp;574

--- page 144 ---
Activity ID
Activity Name
OD Start
Finish
DS490-ND05
(Zone 5) North to South EAST (100 piles)
10 15-Oct-20
28-Oct-20
DS490-ND06
(Zone 6) North to South (97 piles)
10 29-Oct-20
12-Nov-20
Phase 1 work 
Phase 1 work part 1
145 01-Sep-20
07-Apr-21
DS370-U01
Install (Zone 1-3) Under slab piping and concrete encasement (GMP-3 scope)
15 01-Sep-20
23-Sep-20
DS360-R01
Install (Zone 1-3) Pile Rebar Hooks (and inspections)
7 14-Sep-20
22-Sep-20
DS370-C01
Install (Zone 1-3) Slab Concrete (GMP-3 scope)
80 18-Sep-20
19-Jan-21
DS370-U02
Install (Zone 4-6) Under slab piping and concrete encasement (GMP-3 scope)
15 15-Oct-20
04-Nov-20
DS360-R02
Install (Zone 4-6) Pile Rebar Hooks (and inspections)
10 05-Nov-20
19-Nov-20
DS370-C02
Install (Zone 4-6) Slab Concrete (GMP-3 scope)
90 20-Nov-20
07-Apr-21
Drive Phase 1 "
Drive Phase 1 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles - Pile Rig #1 - SEQUENCE
205 13-Nov-20
15-Sep-21
DS250-D01
(Zone 6) North to South (east side)  (100 piles)
10 13-Nov-20
30-Nov-20
DS250-D02
(Zone 7)   North to South (east side) (100 piles)
10 01-Dec-20
14-Dec-20
DS250-D03
(Zone 8)  North to South (east side)  (100 piles)
10 15-Dec-20
30-Dec-20
DS250-D04
(Zone 9)  North to South (east side)  (120 piles)
12 04-Jan-21
20-Jan-21
Phase 1 work 
Phase 1 work part 2
175 04-Jan-21
15-Sep-21
DS370-U03
Install (Zone 6-9) Under slab piping and concrete encasement (GMP-3 scope)
15 04-Jan-21
25-Jan-21
DS360-R03
Install (Zone 6-9) Pile Rebar Hooks (and inspections)
20 26-Jan-21
23-Feb-21
DS370-C03
Install (Zone 6-9) Slab Concrete (GMP-3 scope)
140 24-Feb-21
15-Sep-21
Drive Phase 1 
Drive Phase 1 Production Piles Crew  # 2
175 22-Sep-20
09-Jun-21
DS600
Mobilize Pile Driving Equipment - Crew #2
12 22-Sep-20
07-Oct-20
DS530
Excavate Actiflo Process Area to lower FFE level (by Earthwork sub)
8 06-Nov-20
18-Nov-20
DS560
Excavate Elevator Shaft area to lower FFE level - (by Earthwork sub)
4 13-Nov-20
18-Nov-20
DS320
Demobilize Pile Driving Equipment - Crew #2
12 28-Jan-21
12-Feb-21
Drive Phase 1 "
Drive Phase 1 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles - Pile Rig #2- SEQUENCE
158 15-Oct-20
09-Jun-21
DS510
(Zone 10) Drive Recessed Actiflo "PDA Dependent" Piles w/follower bar (52 -Piles)
8 15-Oct-20
26-Oct-20
DS520
(Zone 11) Drive/Vibrate Actiflo Process Area Elevator Shaft Perimeter Sheet Piles
8 27-Oct-20
05-Nov-20
DS540
(Zone 12) Drive Elevator Shaft Recessed "PDA Dependent" Piles w/follower bar (15 -Piles)
4 06-Nov-20
12-Nov-20
DS310-D04
(Zone 13)  (100 piles)
10 13-Nov-20
30-Nov-20
DS310-D4
(Zone 14)  (100 piles)
10 01-Dec-20
14-Dec-20
DS310-D14
(Zone 15)  (60 piles)
6 15-Dec-20
22-Dec-20
DS310-D15
(Zone 16)
10 23-Dec-20
11-Jan-21
Phase 1 work 
Phase 1 work Rig 2 part 3
138 13-Nov-20
09-Jun-21
DS370-U4
Install (Zone 10-12) Under slab piping and concrete encasement (GMP-3 scope)
10 13-Nov-20
30-Nov-20
DS360-R5
Install (Zone  10-12 Pile Rebar Hooks  (and inspections)
10 01-Dec-20
14-Dec-20
DS370-C4
Install (Zone 10-12) Slab Concrete (GMP-3 scope)
35 15-Dec-20
08-Feb-21
DS370-U14
Install (Zone 13-15) Under slab piping and concrete encasement  (GMP-3 scope)
10 12-Jan-21
26-Jan-21
DS360-R15
Install (Zone 13-15) Pile Rebar Hooks  (and inspections)
12 27-Jan-21
11-Feb-21
DS370-C14
Install (Zone 13-15) Slab Concrete (GMP-3 scope)
80 12-Feb-21
09-Jun-21
Phase 2 - Pile
Phase 2 - Pile Driving (Higher Elevation Piles)
354 04-Jan-21
09-Jun-22
Drive Phase 2 
Drive Phase 2 Production Piles - Crew # 1
354 04-Jan-21
09-Jun-22
DS410
Drive Phase 2 Indicator Piles, PDA Testing, Re-tapping, CAPWAP Report
20 04-Jan-21
01-Feb-21
N
Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug
S
Oct
N
Dec Jan
F
Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct
N
Dec Jan
F Mar Apr May Jun
2020
2021
2022
(Zone 5) North to South EAST (100 piles)
(Zone 6) North to South (97 piles)
Install (Zone 1-3) Under slab piping and concrete encasement (GMP-3 scope)
Install (Zone 1-3) Pile Rebar Hooks (and inspections)
Install (Zone 1-3) Slab Concrete (GMP-3 scope)
Install (Zone 4-6) Under slab piping and concrete encasement (GMP-3 scope)
Install (Zone 4-6) Pile Rebar Hooks (and inspections)
Install (Zone 4-6) Slab Concrete (GMP-3 scope)
(Zone 6) North to South (east side)  (100 piles)
(Zone 7)   North to South (east side) (100 piles)
(Zone 8)  North to South (east side)  (100 piles)
(Zone 9)  North to South (east side)  (120 piles)
Install (Zone 6-9) Under slab piping and concrete encasement (GMP-3 scope)
Install (Zone 6-9) Pile Rebar Hooks (and inspections)
Install (Zone 6-9) Slab Concrete (GMP-3 s
Mobilize Pile Driving Equipment - Crew #2
Excavate Actiflo Process Area to lower FFE level (by Earthwork sub)
Excavate Elevator Shaft area to lower FFE level - (by Earthwork sub)
Demobilize Pile Driving Equipment - Crew #2
(Zone 10) Drive Recessed Actiflo "PDA Dependent" Piles w/follower bar (52 -Piles)
(Zone 11) Drive/Vibrate Actiflo Process Area Elevator Shaft Perimeter Sheet Piles
(Zone 12) Drive Elevator Shaft Recessed "PDA Dependent" Piles w/follower bar (15 -Pil
(Zone 13)  (100 piles)
(Zone 14)  (100 piles)
(Zone 15)  (60 piles)
(Zone 16)
Install (Zone 10-12) Under slab piping and concrete encasement (GMP-3 scope)
Install (Zone  10-12 Pile Rebar Hooks  (and inspections)
Install (Zone 10-12) Slab Concrete (GMP-3 scope)
Install (Zone 13-15) Under slab piping and concrete encasement  (GMP-3 scop
Install (Zone 13-15) Pile Rebar Hooks  (and inspections)
Install (Zone 13-15) Slab Concrete (GMP-3 scope)
Drive Phase 2 Indicator Piles, PDA Testing, Re-tapping, CAPWAP Report
Date - 27-Feb-20
Page 3 of 4  
&nbsp;
144 of&nbsp;574

--- page 145 ---
Activity ID
Activity Name
OD Start
Finish
DS450
Demobilize Pile Driving Equipment - Pile Rig #1
9 20-Sep-21
30-Sep-21
DS640
Post condition Inspection/Report of adjacent structures
9 20-Sep-21
30-Sep-21
Drive Phase 2 "
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles - Pile Rig #1- SEQUENCE
231 01-Jul-21
09-Jun-22
DS400
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles  - Area 51/64  Headworks/Odor
16 01-Jul-21
23-Jul-21
DS610
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles  - Area 56/70 MBR/Chem
20 26-Jul-21
20-Aug-21
DS620
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles  - Area 56 Electrical
7 23-Aug-21
31-Aug-21
DS630
Drive  Yard Piping Piles  - (15 Piles)
2 01-Sep-21
02-Sep-21
DS430
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles  - Area 80 Admin
9 07-Sep-21
17-Sep-21
Phase 2 work
Phase 2 work
177 20-Sep-21
09-Jun-22
DS370-U24
Install (Phase 2) Under slab piping and concrete encasement (GMP-3 scope)
27 20-Sep-21
26-Oct-21
DS360-R25
Install (Phase 2) Pile Rebar Hooks  (and inspections)
15 06-Oct-21
26-Oct-21
DS370-C24
Install (Phase 2) Slab Concrete (GMP-3 scope)
150 27-Oct-21
09-Jun-22
02 - Pile Foun
02 - Pile Foundation
322 13-Nov-20
10-Mar-22
C: Site Works
C: Site Works
200 21-Jul-20
12-May-21
N
Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug
S
Oct
N
Dec Jan
F
Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct
N
Dec Jan
F Mar Apr May Jun
2020
2021
2022
Demobilize Pile Driving Equipment - P
Post condition Inspection/Report of adja
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles 
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Production P
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Production 
Drive  Yard Piping Piles  - (15 Piles)
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Producti
Install (Phase 2) Under slab piping a
Install (Phase 2) Pile Rebar Hooks  
In
Date - 27-Feb-20
Page 4 of 4  
&nbsp;
145 of&nbsp;574

--- page 146 ---
Activity ID
Activity Name
OD Start
Finish
San Mateo 
San Mateo WWTP Schedule - GMP 2 Submittal
639 31-Oct-19 A
09-Jun-22
CONTRACT M
CONTRACT MILESTONES
440 07-Apr-20
21-Jan-22
GMP 2
GMP 2
440 07-Apr-20
21-Jan-22
CMS001600
GMP 2 - City Issue NTP
0 07-Apr-20*
CMS001701
GMP 2 - Substantial Completion (Pile Foundation)
0
17-Nov-21*
CMS000180
GMP 2 - Final Completion (Pile Foundation)
0
21-Jan-22*
PROJECT MI
PROJECT MILESTONES
504 31-Oct-19 A
17-Nov-21
ES000380
CMAR Subcontractor Bid Process/ GMP 2 Submittal
21 31-Oct-19 A
28-Feb-20
CMS000005
GMP 2 Package Submittal
0 02-Mar-20
CMS001711
Letter of Intent
0
16-Mar-20*
Weather Day
Weather Days
15 27-Oct-21
17-Nov-21
WD100030
GMP 2 Weather Days (15 day allowance)
15 27-Oct-21
17-Nov-21
OWNER ACT
OWNER ACTIVITIES
26 02-Mar-20
06-Apr-20
OW000020
GMP 2 City Council/Staff Review
25 02-Mar-20
03-Apr-20
OW000060
City Council Meeting - GMP 2
0 06-Apr-20
ES000280
City Funding Approval & NTP Release
1 06-Apr-20
06-Apr-20
PRECONSTR
PRECONSTRUCTION
181 07-Apr-20
30-Dec-20
GMP 2
GMP 2
181 07-Apr-20
30-Dec-20
GMP 2 Precon
GMP 2 Preconstruction
181 07-Apr-20
30-Dec-20
Drive Phase 1 
Drive Phase 1 Submit/Rev/Fab
91 07-Apr-20
17-Aug-20
DS270
Subcontractor  Submittals - Pile Design Submittal
11 07-Apr-20
22-Apr-20
DS280
Engineer Review & Approval - Subcon Submittal
15 23-Apr-20
13-May-20
DS260
Fabricate, Cure and Deliver Indicator Piles - Phase 1 - (First 5 Piles)
55 14-May-20
03-Aug-20
DS300
Fabricate, Cure, and Deliver "PDA Non-Dependent" Production Piles - Phase 1
55 01-Jun-20
17-Aug-20
Drive Phase 2 
Drive Phase 2 Submit/Rev/Fab
30 13-Nov-20
30-Dec-20
DS380
Fabricate, Cure and Deliver Indicator Piles - Phase 2
30 13-Nov-20
30-Dec-20
CONSTRUCT
CONSTRUCTION
449 11-Aug-20
09-Jun-22
GMP 2
GMP 2
449 11-Aug-20
09-Jun-22
GMP 2 Summa
GMP 2 Summary Activities
262 25-Aug-20
17-Sep-21
Piles Summary
Piles Summary
262 25-Aug-20
17-Sep-21
DS490
Drive Phase 1 "PDA Non-Dependent" Production Piles - Pile Rig #1
55 25-Aug-20
12-Nov-20
DS250
Drive Phase 1 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles - Pile Rig #1
47 13-Nov-20
27-Jan-21
DS100
No Site Pile Driving
103 02-Feb-21
30-Jun-21
DS405
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles  - Pile Rig #1
54 01-Jul-21
17-Sep-21
Phase 1 - Pile
Phase 1 - Pile Driving (Lower Elevation Piles)
10 11-Aug-20
24-Aug-20
Drive Phase 1 
Drive Phase 1 Production Piles - Crew # 1
10 11-Aug-20
24-Aug-20
DS470
Drive Tower Crane Piles - Crew #1
5 11-Aug-20
17-Aug-20
DS480
Drive Recessed Drain Sump "Non-Dependent PDA" Piles w/follower bar (4 -Piles)
5 18-Aug-20
24-Aug-20
N
Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug
S
Oct
N
Dec Jan
F
Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct
N
Dec Jan
F Mar Apr May Jun
2020
2021
2022
GMP 2 - City Issue NTP
GMP 2 - Substantial Completion
GMP 2 - Final Comple
CMAR Subcontractor Bid Process/ GMP 2 Submittal
GMP 2 Package Submittal
Letter of Intent
GMP 2 Weather Days (15 day all
GMP 2 City Council/Staff Review
City Council Meeting - GMP 2
City Funding Approval & NTP Release
Subcontractor  Submittals - Pile Design Submittal
Engineer Review & Approval - Subcon Submittal
Fabricate, Cure and Deliver Indicator Piles - Phase 1 - (First 5 Piles)
Fabricate, Cure, and Deliver "PDA Non-Dependent" Production Piles - Phase 1
Fabricate, Cure and Deliver Indicator Piles - Phase 2
Drive Phase 1 "PDA Non-Dependent" Production Piles - Pile Rig #1
Drive Phase 1 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles - Pile Rig #1
No Site Pile Driving
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Producti
Drive Tower Crane Piles - Crew #1
Drive Recessed Drain Sump "Non-Dependent PDA" Piles w/follower bar (4 -Piles)
Date - 27-Feb-20
Page 1 of 2  
 Sundt Construction, Inc.
 2620 South 55th Street, Tempe, AZ  85282
San Mateo WWTP Schedule - GMP 2 Submittal
Project Schedule
Critical Remaining Work
Remaining Work
Milestone
Remaining Level of Effort
Actual Work
&nbsp;
146 of&nbsp;574

--- page 147 ---
Activity ID
Activity Name
OD Start
Finish
Phase 2 - Pile
Phase 2 - Pile Driving (Higher Elevation Piles)
354 04-Jan-21
09-Jun-22
Drive Phase 2 
Drive Phase 2 Production Piles - Crew # 1
354 04-Jan-21
09-Jun-22
DS410
Drive Phase 2 Indicator Piles, PDA Testing, Re-tapping, CAPWAP Report
20 04-Jan-21
01-Feb-21
Drive Phase 2 "
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles - Pile Rig #1- SEQUENCE
231 01-Jul-21
09-Jun-22
DS400
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles  - Area 51/64  Headworks/Odor
16 01-Jul-21
23-Jul-21
DS610
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles  - Area 56/70 MBR/Chem
20 26-Jul-21
20-Aug-21
DS620
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles  - Area 56 Electrical
7 23-Aug-21
31-Aug-21
DS630
Drive  Yard Piping Piles  - (15 Piles)
2 01-Sep-21
02-Sep-21
DS430
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles  - Area 80 Admin
9 07-Sep-21
17-Sep-21
Phase 2 work
Phase 2 work
177 20-Sep-21
09-Jun-22
DS370-U24
Install (Phase 2) Under slab piping and concrete encasement (GMP-3 scope)
27 20-Sep-21
26-Oct-21
DS360-R25
Install (Phase 2) Pile Rebar Hooks  (and inspections)
15 06-Oct-21
26-Oct-21
DS370-C24
Install (Phase 2) Slab Concrete (GMP-3 scope)
150 27-Oct-21
09-Jun-22
N
Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug
S
Oct
N
Dec Jan
F
Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct
N
Dec Jan
F Mar Apr May Jun
2020
2021
2022
Drive Phase 2 Indicator Piles, PDA Testing, Re-tapping, CAPWAP Report
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Production Piles 
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Production P
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Production 
Drive  Yard Piping Piles  - (15 Piles)
Drive Phase 2 "PDA Dependent" Producti
Install (Phase 2) Under slab piping a
Install (Phase 2) Pile Rebar Hooks  
In
Date - 27-Feb-20
Page 2 of 2  
&nbsp;
147 of&nbsp;574

--- page 148 ---
148 of 574



--- page 149 ---
LINE ITEM COMPENSATION STRUCTURE
A1. Direct Cost - 7 Work Categories (WC-0180, 0191, 0309, 3100, 3123, 3141, 3162)
13,569,201 Invoiced on a Percent Complete basis.  All generated savings and unused funds are 
reimbursed back to the City upon completion.
A2. Direct Cost - 3 Work Categories (WC-0135, 0136, 0155)
274,685 Invoiced on a Time & Material Basis. Supporting backup will be provided. 
A - TOTAL DIRECT COSTS
13,843,886
B1. General Conditions
12.74%
1,763,723 Lump Sum - Invoicing prorated evenly over 6 months
C1. Payment & Performance Bond
0.84%
149,059 Lump Sum - Invoiced on the 1st Submitted Pay Application
C2. General Liability Insurance (PLPD)
0.29%
51,185 Lump Sum - Invoiced on the 1st Submitted Pay Application
C3. DIC (including limited earthquake)
0.17%
30,366 Lump Sum - Invoiced on the 1st Submitted Pay Application
B&C - TOTAL INDIRECT COSTS
1,994,333
A, B & C - SUBTOTAL DIRECT AND INDIRECT COSTS
15,838,219
D1. Construction Fee
8.00%
1,267,058 Fixed Fee - Percent Complete Invoicing
D2. CMAR Contingency
3.50%
484,536
Percent Complete Invoicing. Any used Contingency will include a CMAR Markup of 9.1% (Fee 
and Subcontractor Default Insurance).  Unused Contingency funds are reimbursed back to the 
City upon completion.
D3.  Direct Cost Allowances
0
Percent Complete Invoicing. Any used Direct Allowances will include a CMAR Markup of 9.1% 
(Fee and Subcontractor Default Insurance).  Unused Direct Allowance funds are reimbursed 
back to the City upon completion.
D4.  Indirect Cost Allowances (Per included GMP-2 Allowance Log)
126,237
Percent Complete Invoicing. Any used Indirect Allowances will include a CMAR Markup of 
9.1% (Fee and Subcontractor Default Insurance).  Unused Indirect Allowance funds are 
reimbursed back to the City upon completion.
A, B, C, & D - GMP 2 TOTAL (CMAR CONTRACT)
17,716,049
E. Owner's Contingency (Per Included GMP-2 Risk Matrix)
9.29%
1,645,000
Precent Complete Invoicing. Any released Owner Contingency will include a CMAR Markup of 
10.5% (Fee, Insurances, Bond, and Subcontractor Default Insurance). Unused Indirect 
Allowance funds are reimbursed back to the City upon completion.
E - TOTAL OWNER'S CONTINGENCIES
1,645,000
A, B, C, D, & E - TOTAL GMP 2 COST
19,361,049
GMP 2 - R2
149 of 574

--- page 150 ---
GMP-2 ESTIMATE  - PROJECT COST DETAIL
Project Location: San Mateo, CA
Estimate Completion Date: 3/3/2020
Lead Estimator:  Andre Castaneda
Estimate Type:  GMP
TOTAL
TOTAL
UNIT COST
TOTAL
UNIT COST
TOTAL
UNIT COST
TOTAL
UNIT COST
TOTAL
UNIT COST
TOTAL
TOTAL PROJECT COST
9,000.00
1,247,711.33
4,229,479.65
80,739.60
13,897,966.05
19,361,050.22
 CONTINGENCIES, ALLOWANCES & FEES
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
3,522,831.00
3,522,831.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
3,522,831.00
3,522,831.00
  CMAR CONTINGENCY
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
484,536.00
484,536.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
484,536.00
484,536.00
  OWNER CONTINGENCY
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,645,000.00
1,645,000.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,645,000.00
1,645,000.00
  ALLOWANCES
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
126,237.00
126,237.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
126,237.00
126,237.00
  CONSTRUCTION FEE
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,267,058.00
1,267,058.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,267,058.00
1,267,058.00
 INSURANCE & BONDS
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
230,610.00
230,610.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
230,610.00
230,610.00
   PLPD INSURANCE
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
51,185.00
51,185.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
51,185.00
51,185.00
   DIC INSURANCE (including limited Earthquake)
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
30,366.00
30,366.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
30,366.00
30,366.00
   PAYMENT & PERFORMANCE BOND
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
149,059.00
149,059.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
149,059.00
149,059.00
GENERAL CONDITIONS & REQUIREMENTS
26
WK
346.16
9,000.00
260.91
47,989.08
1,247,711.33
21,037.37
476,038.65
3,105.38
80,739.60
2,079.99
54,079.84
74,266.02
1,763,723.01
  A - GENERAL CONDITIONS
26
WK
312.31
8,120.00
140.62
43,917.83
1,141,859.10
3,323.81
86,418.81
2,785.38
72,419.60
0.00
0.00
50,027.02
1,300,697.51
      CMAR CONSTRUCTION STAFF
26
WK
312.31
8,120.00
140.62
43,917.83
1,141,859.10
3,323.81
86,418.81
2,785.38
72,419.60
0.00
0.00
50,027.02
1,300,697.51
        PROJECT EXECUTIVE / DIRECTOR
8
WK
40.00
320.00
202.67
8,106.93
64,855.44
154.28
1,234.24
479.60
3,836.80
0.00
0.00
8,740.81
69,926.48
        SR PROJECT MANAGER
26
WK
40.00
1,040.00
187.08
7,483.32
194,566.32
154.28
4,011.28
479.60
12,469.60
0.00
0.00
8,117.20
211,047.20
        CONSTRUCTION MANAGER
26
WK
40.00
1,040.00
190.79
7,631.77
198,426.01
154.28
4,011.28
479.60
12,469.60
0.00
0.00
8,265.65
214,906.89
        PROJECT SUPER - PILE/CIVIL/YARD PIPE/CONC
13
WK
40.00
520.00
138.15
5,526.10
71,839.26
154.28
2,005.64
479.60
6,234.80
0.00
0.00
6,159.98
80,079.70
        SR PROJECT ENGINEER - COST/CONTRACTS
26
WK
40.00
1,040.00
136.86
5,474.38
142,333.96
154.28
4,011.28
479.60
12,469.60
0.00
0.00
6,108.26
158,814.84
        SR PROJECT ENGINEER - PILE/CIVIL/YARD PIPE/CONC
26
WK
40.00
1,040.00
136.86
5,474.38
142,333.96
154.28
4,011.28
479.60
12,469.60
0.00
0.00
6,108.26
158,814.84
        FIELD ENGINEER
13
WK
        SR PROJECT SCHEDULER
26
WK
40.00
1,040.00
86.03
3,441.11
89,468.87
154.28
4,011.28
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
3,595.39
93,480.15
        SR PROJECT ADMINSTRATOR
26
WK
40.00
1,040.00
139.23
5,569.29
144,801.63
154.28
4,011.28
479.60
12,469.60
0.00
0.00
6,203.17
161,282.51
        RELOCATE PROJECT PERSONNEL
26
WK
40.00
1,040.00
89.65
3,585.91
93,233.65
131.24
3,412.24
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
3,717.15
96,645.89
        TRAVEL EXP - PROJECT
1
EA
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
27,250.00
27,250.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
27,250.00
27,250.00
  B - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
26
WK
33.85
880.00
120.29
4,071.26
105,852.23
17,713.56
389,619.84
320.00
8,320.00
2,079.99
54,079.84
24,239.00
463,025.50
    01 - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
26
WK
33.85
880.00
120.29
4,071.26
105,852.23
17,713.56
389,619.84
320.00
8,320.00
2,079.99
54,079.84
24,239.00
463,025.50
      FIELD OFFICES & FACILITIES
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
3,936.17
102,340.10
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
3,936.17
102,340.10
        FIELD OFFICE TRAILERS - MONTHLY RENTAL
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
4,033.00
24,198.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
4,033.00
24,198.00
        FIELD OFFICE FURN/EQUIP
4
EA
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,526.00
6,104.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,526.00
6,104.00
        COPY MACHINES (2)
52
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
436.00
22,672.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
436.00
22,672.00
        OFFICE SUPPLIES
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
272.50
7,085.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
272.50
7,085.00
        POSTAGE, UPS, FED EX
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
38.15
991.90
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
38.15
991.90
        OWNER OFFICE TRAILERS - MONTHLY RENTAL
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
2,539.70
15,238.20
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
2,539.70
15,238.20
        DRINKING WATER
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
272.50
7,085.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
272.50
7,085.00
        JANITOR SERVICES
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
3,161.00
18,966.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
3,161.00
18,966.00
        TABLETS
26
AR
      UTILITIES
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,496.20
38,901.01
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,496.20
38,901.01
        CHEMICAL TOILETS
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
3,050.00
18,300.01
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
3,050.00
18,300.01
        TELEPHONE
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,090.00
6,540.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,090.00
6,540.00
   WIRELESS INERNET/NETWORK SERVICE
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,853.00
11,118.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,853.00
11,118.00
        ALARM SYSTEM
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
490.50
2,943.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
490.50
2,943.00
      CONSTRUCTION SUPPORT
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
2,103.04
54,678.76
0.00
0.00
2,079.99
54,079.84
12,101.45
108,758.60
        SITE SECURITY PERSONNEL
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
2,079.99
54,079.84
2,079.99
54,079.84
        SITE SECURITY EQUIPMENT
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
7,630.00
7,630.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
7,630.00
7,630.00
        DUMPSTERS; DUMP FEES
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,635.00
42,510.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,635.00
42,510.00
        CRAFT LUNCH TENT/ MAINTENANCE
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
756.46
4,538.76
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
756.46
4,538.76
      MISC GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,456.94
37,880.20
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,456.94
37,880.20
        VIDEO SURVEILLANCE
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
4,338.20
26,029.20
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
4,338.20
26,029.20
        PROJECT DOCUMENTS/PRINTING
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
163.50
4,251.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
163.50
4,251.00
        COMMUNITY OUTREACH
13
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
584.62
7,600.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
584.62
7,600.00
      SAFETY
26
WK
33.85
880.00
122.71
4,153.41
107,988.57
1,837.97
47,787.14
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
5,991.37
155,775.71
        PROJECT SAFETY MANAGER
22
WK
40.00
880.00
122.71
4,908.57
107,988.57
154.28
3,394.16
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
5,062.85
111,382.73
        FIRST AID KITS, SUPPLIES
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
163.50
4,251.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
163.50
4,251.00
        SAFETY ITEMS - WAREHOUSE
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
10,743.04
10,743.04
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
10,743.04
10,743.04
        FIRE EXTINGUISHERS
5
EA
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
402.21
2,180.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
402.21
2,180.00
        SAFETY BARRICADES
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
436.00
11,336.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
436.00
11,336.00
        TEMPORARY FENCE
350
LF
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
31.10
10,886.38
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
31.10
10,886.38
        SAFETY INCENTIVE
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
832.76
4,996.56
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
832.76
4,996.56
      TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
425.00
11,049.88
320.00
8,320.00
0.00
0.00
745.00
19,369.88
        LIGHT PLANT
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
320.00
8,320.00
0.00
0.00
320.00
8,320.00
        SMALL TOOLS
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
5,000.38
5,000.38
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
5,000.38
5,000.38
        CONSUMABLES
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
5,057.60
5,057.60
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
5,057.60
5,057.60
        FUEL/MAINTENANCE FOR ON-SITE EQUIPMENT
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
38.15
991.90
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
38.15
991.90
DIRECTS
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
13,843,886.21
13,843,886.21
13,843,886.21
13,843,886.21
C - SITE WORK, CONCRETE, TOWER CRANE & PILES
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
13,843,886.21
13,843,886.21
13,843,886.21
13,843,886.21
  01 - SITEWORK 
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
841,317.74
841,317.74
841,317.74
841,317.74
    WC-0135 - DUST CONTROL & STREET SWEEPING
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
30,091.46
180,548.78
30,091.46
180,548.78
        DUST CONTROL & STREET SWEEPING
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
6,944.18
180,548.78
6,944.18
180,548.78
    WC-0136 - SWPPP
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
10,194.33
61,166.00
10,194.33
61,166.00
        SWPPP INSTALL & MAINTENANCE, QSP SERVICES
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
10,194.33
61,166.00
10,194.33
61,166.00
    WC-0155 - TRAFFIC CONTROL
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
5,494.96
32,969.73
5,494.96
32,969.73
        TRAFFIC CONTROL 
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
5,494.96
32,969.73
5,494.96
32,969.73
    WC-0180 - SURVEY
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
12,693.38
76,160.26
12,693.38
76,160.26
        SURVEYING
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
12,693.38
76,160.26
12,693.38
76,160.26
    WC-0191 - TOWER CRANES
2
EA
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
245,236.49
490,472.97
245,236.49
490,472.97
        TOWER CRANE - MOBILIZATION, ASSEMBLY, CERT TEST
2
EA
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
245,236.49
490,472.97
245,236.49
490,472.97
  03 - CONCRETE
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
445.13
308,920.19
445.13
308,920.19
    WC-0309 - TOWER CRANE FOUNDATION
2
EA
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
154,460.10
308,920.19
154,460.10
308,920.19
        PILE CAP & FOUNDATION BASE, ANCHOR PLATES 
2
EA
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
154,460.10
308,920.19
154,460.10
308,920.19
  31 - EARTHWORK, DEWATERING, PILES
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
12,693,648.28
12,693,648.28
12,693,648.28
12,693,648.28
    WC-3100 - EARTHWORK
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
515,712.06
515,712.06
515,712.06
515,712.06
        EARTHWORK
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
515,712.06
515,712.06
515,712.06
515,712.06
    WC-3123 - DEWATERING TREATMENT SYSTEM
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
544,506.24
544,506.24
544,506.24
544,506.24
       DEWATERING EQUIP - RENTAL, MAINT, OPERATION, TESTING 1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
544,506.24
544,506.24
544,506.24
544,506.24
    WC-3141 - SUMP DRILLING & STEEL ENCASEMENT 
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
144,430.00
144,430.00
144,430.00
144,430.00
        DRILLING/ ENCASEMENT FOR SUMP PUMPS
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
144,430.00
144,430.00
144,430.00
144,430.00
    WC-3162 - PRECAST CONCRETE PILES
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
11,488,999.98
11,488,999.98
11,488,999.98
11,488,999.98
PRECAST CONCRETE  PILES & STEEL SHEET PILES
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
11,488,999.98
11,488,999.98
11,488,999.98
11,488,999.98
QTY
LINE ITEM DESCRIPTION
EQUIPMENT 
UNIT
MH/UNIT
HOURS 
LAB$/MH
LABOR
 LABOR
MATERIAL
 MATERIAL
 EQUIPMENT
SUBCONTRACT
 SUBCONTRACT
TOTAL
 COST
150 of 574

--- page 151 ---
San Mateo Waste Water Treatment Plant
GMP-2 Allowances
Item No.
Descripion of Allowance Item
Allowance Amount
DIRECT COST ALLOWANCES
SUBTOTAL $
-
INDIRECT COST ALLOWANCES
1
Electrical Consumption - PG&E
$
52,320
2
Water Consumption - Foster City
$
33,763
3
Storm Damage/Cleanup
$
18,725
4
Permits, Licenses & Fees
$
10,900
SUBTOTAL $
115,708
CONSTRUCTION FEE (applied if allowance is used)
5
Construction Fee & SDI  (9.1%)
$
10,529
SUBTOTAL $
10,529
 GMP-2 ALLOWANCES CARRIED
$
126,237
151 of 574

--- page 152 ---
~

wine) 2.

E—GMP2 General Conditions



--- page 153 ---
GMP-2 ESTIMATE  - INDIRECT COST DETAIL
Project Location: San Mateo, CA
Estimate Completion Date: 3/3/2020
Lead Estimator:  Andre Castaneda
Estimate Type:  GMP
TOTAL
TOTAL
UNIT COST
TOTAL
UNIT COST
TOTAL
UNIT COST
TOTAL
UNIT COST
TOTAL
UNIT COST
TOTAL
TOTAL INDIRECT COSTS
26
WK
346.16
9,000.00
260.91
47,989.08
1,247,711.33
21,037.37
476,038.65
3,105.38
80,739.60
2,079.99
54,079.84
74,266.02
1,763,723.01
  A - GENERAL CONDITIONS
26
WK
312.31
8,120.00
140.62
43,917.83
1,141,859.10
3,323.81
86,418.81
2,785.38
72,419.60
0.00
0.00
50,027.02
1,300,697.51
      CMAR CONSTRUCTION STAFF
26
WK
312.31
8,120.00
140.62
43,917.83
1,141,859.10
3,323.81
86,418.81
2,785.38
72,419.60
0.00
0.00
50,027.02
1,300,697.51
        PROJECT EXECUTIVE / DIRECTOR
8
WK
40.00
320.00
202.67
8,106.93
64,855.44
154.28
1,234.24
479.60
3,836.80
0.00
0.00
8,740.81
69,926.48
        SR PROJECT MANAGER
26
WK
40.00
1,040.00
187.08
7,483.32
194,566.32
154.28
4,011.28
479.60
12,469.60
0.00
0.00
8,117.20
211,047.20
        CONSTRUCTION MANAGER
26
WK
40.00
1,040.00
190.79
7,631.77
198,426.01
154.28
4,011.28
479.60
12,469.60
0.00
0.00
8,265.65
214,906.89
        PROJECT SUPER - PILE/CIVIL/YARD PIPE/CONC
13
WK
40.00
520.00
138.15
5,526.10
71,839.26
154.28
2,005.64
479.60
6,234.80
0.00
0.00
6,159.98
80,079.70
        SR PROJECT ENGINEER - COST/CONTRACTS
26
WK
40.00
1,040.00
136.86
5,474.38
142,333.96
154.28
4,011.28
479.60
12,469.60
0.00
0.00
6,108.26
158,814.84
        SR PROJECT ENGINEER - PILE/CIVIL/YARD PIPE/CONC
26
WK
40.00
1,040.00
136.86
5,474.38
142,333.96
154.28
4,011.28
479.60
12,469.60
0.00
0.00
6,108.26
158,814.84
        FIELD ENGINEER
13
WK
        SR PROJECT SCHEDULER
26
WK
40.00
1,040.00
86.03
3,441.11
89,468.87
154.28
4,011.28
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
3,595.39
93,480.15
        SR PROJECT ADMINSTRATOR
26
WK
40.00
1,040.00
139.23
5,569.29
144,801.63
154.28
4,011.28
479.60
12,469.60
0.00
0.00
6,203.17
161,282.51
        RELOCATE PROJECT PERSONNEL
26
WK
40.00
1,040.00
89.65
3,585.91
93,233.65
131.24
3,412.24
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
3,717.15
96,645.89
        TRAVEL EXP - PROJECT
1
EA
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
27,250.00
27,250.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
27,250.00
27,250.00
  B - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
26
WK
33.85
880.00
120.29
4,071.26
105,852.23
17,713.56
389,619.84
320.00
8,320.00
2,079.99
54,079.84
24,239.00
463,025.50
    01 - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
26
WK
33.85
880.00
120.29
4,071.26
105,852.23
17,713.56
389,619.84
320.00
8,320.00
2,079.99
54,079.84
24,239.00
463,025.50
      FIELD OFFICES & FACILITIES
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
3,936.17
102,340.10
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
3,936.17
102,340.10
        FIELD OFFICE TRAILERS - MONTHLY RENTAL
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
4,033.00
24,198.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
4,033.00
24,198.00
        FIELD OFFICE FURN/EQUIP
4
EA
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,526.00
6,104.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,526.00
6,104.00
        COPY MACHINES (2)
52
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
436.00
22,672.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
436.00
22,672.00
        OFFICE SUPPLIES
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
272.50
7,085.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
272.50
7,085.00
        POSTAGE, UPS, FED EX
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
38.15
991.90
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
38.15
991.90
        OWNER OFFICE TRAILERS - MONTHLY RENTAL
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
2,539.70
15,238.20
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
2,539.70
15,238.20
        DRINKING WATER
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
272.50
7,085.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
272.50
7,085.00
        JANITOR SERVICES
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
3,161.00
18,966.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
3,161.00
18,966.00
        TABLETS
26
AR
      UTILITIES
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,496.20
38,901.01
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,496.20
38,901.01
        CHEMICAL TOILETS
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
3,050.00
18,300.01
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
3,050.00
18,300.01
        TELEPHONE
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,090.00
6,540.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,090.00
6,540.00
   WIRELESS INERNET/NETWORK SERVICE
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,853.00
11,118.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,853.00
11,118.00
        ALARM SYSTEM
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
490.50
2,943.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
490.50
2,943.00
      CONSTRUCTION SUPPORT
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
2,103.04
54,678.76
0.00
0.00
2,079.99
54,079.84
12,101.45
108,758.60
        SITE SECURITY PERSONNEL
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
2,079.99
54,079.84
2,079.99
54,079.84
        SITE SECURITY EQUIPMENT
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
7,630.00
7,630.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
7,630.00
7,630.00
        DUMPSTERS; DUMP FEES
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,635.00
42,510.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,635.00
42,510.00
        CRAFT LUNCH TENT/ MAINTENANCE
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
756.46
4,538.76
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
756.46
4,538.76
      MISC GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,456.94
37,880.20
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,456.94
37,880.20
        VIDEO SURVEILLANCE
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
4,338.20
26,029.20
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
4,338.20
26,029.20
        PROJECT DOCUMENTS/PRINTING
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
163.50
4,251.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
163.50
4,251.00
        COMMUNITY OUTREACH
13
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
584.62
7,600.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
584.62
7,600.00
      SAFETY
26
WK
33.85
880.00
122.71
4,153.41
107,988.57
1,837.97
47,787.14
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
5,991.37
155,775.71
        PROJECT SAFETY MANAGER
22
WK
40.00
880.00
122.71
4,908.57
107,988.57
154.28
3,394.16
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
5,062.85
111,382.73
        FIRST AID KITS, SUPPLIES
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
163.50
4,251.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
163.50
4,251.00
        SAFETY ITEMS - WAREHOUSE
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
10,743.04
10,743.04
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
10,743.04
10,743.04
        FIRE EXTINGUISHERS
5
EA
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
402.21
2,180.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
402.21
2,180.00
        SAFETY BARRICADES
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
436.00
11,336.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
436.00
11,336.00
        TEMPORARY FENCE
350
LF
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
31.10
10,886.38
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
31.10
10,886.38
        SAFETY INCENTIVE
6
MO
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
832.76
4,996.56
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
832.76
4,996.56
      TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
425.00
11,049.88
320.00
8,320.00
0.00
0.00
745.00
19,369.88
        LIGHT PLANT
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
320.00
8,320.00
0.00
0.00
320.00
8,320.00
        SMALL TOOLS
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
5,000.38
5,000.38
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
5,000.38
5,000.38
        CONSUMABLES
1
LS
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
5,057.60
5,057.60
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
5,057.60
5,057.60
        FUEL/MAINTENANCE FOR ON-SITE EQUIPMENT
26
WK
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
38.15
991.90
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
38.15
991.90
 EQUIPMENT
SUBCONTRACT
 SUBCONTRACT
TOTAL
 COST
QTY
LINE ITEM DESCRIPTION
EQUIPMENT 
UNIT
MH/UNIT
HOURS 
LAB$/MH
LABOR
 LABOR
MATERIAL
 MATERIAL
153 of 574

--- page 154 ---
F—GMP2 Direct Cost Detail by  
Work Category 
154 of 574

--- page 155 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0135 - Dust Control & Street Sweeping - R1
178,761.17
2.3 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are in full 
compliance with all requirements of Exhibit B - Instructions to Bidders, and any exceptions have been 
listed in Question 3.1 of this Bid Form. 
2.4 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are in full 
compliance with all requirements of Exhibit C - Project Schedule (if a Schedule was provided), and any 
exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of this Bid Form. 
General Information
Response
Questions
Project Scope 
Subcontractor Quote:
2.1 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are in full 
compliance with all requirements of the plans and specifications (including appendices), and any 
 
excep,ons have been listed in Ques,on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.2 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are in full 
compliance with all requirements of Exhibit A - Scope of Work Directive, and any exceptions in this Bid 
Form. 
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
Evans Brothers, Inc.
2/25/2020
2.5 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are in full 
compliance with all requirements of Exhibit D - Sundt Safety System Manual, and any exceptions have 
 
been listed in Ques,on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.6 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are in full 
compliance with all requirements of Exhibit E - List of Contract Documents, and any exceptions have been 
 
listed in Ques,on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.7 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are in full 
compliance with all requirements of Exhibit F - Quality Systems Manual, and any exceptions have been 
 
listed in Ques,on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.8 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are in full 
compliance with all requirements of Exhibit G - Insurance Manual, and any exceptions have been listed in 
 
Ques,on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.9 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are in full 
compliance with all requirements of Exhibit H - Textura Overview and any exceptions have been listed in 
 
Ques,on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.10 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are in 
full compliance with all flow-down requirements of Exhibit I - Prime Contract, and any exceptions have 
 
been listed in Ques,on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
155 of 574

--- page 156 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0135 - Dust Control & Street Sweeping - R1
178,761.17
Subcontractor Quote:
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
Evans Brothers, Inc.
2/25/2020
1.1 - By signature below, Bidder acknowledges that it has read Sundt’s Attachment 1 Sample Form of 
Agreement, and (a) agrees to all the terms and conditions of the Sample Form of Agreement, or (b) has 
provided Sundt with a redlined copy of the Sample Form of Agreement, or (c) has provided Sundt with a 
list of specific exceptions referenced by paragraph number. Note that failure to sign this acknowledgment 
may result in this Bid being considered non-responsive and subject to disqualification. 
6.0 - The bidder acknowledges the right of Sundt Construction, Inc. and/or the Owner to reject any and all 
bids, and to waive any informality or irregularity in any bid received, or to negotiate contract terms with 
the various Bidders, when such is deemed by Sundt Construction, Inc. and/or the Owner to be in the best 
interest of the Project.  (Electronic Signature) 
3.1 - Identify any items included in this Bid, and related to the work of this Bid Package, that are not in 
 
compliance with the Bidding Documents.
3.2 - Identify any and all elements related the work of this Bid Package that are excluded from this Bid, or 
 
related elements that are assumed by Bidder to be provided by others.
3.3 - Clarify design elements that are absent from the Bidding Document effecting the warrantability of 
 
the work to be provided under this Bid Package.
3.4 - Shop drawing and submittal preparation lead time:
3.5 - Fabrication & delivery lead time:
3.6 - Qualifications or exceptions to any procedures described in the Instructions to Bidders shall be listed 
 
below.  This includes any excep,ons to the Sample Standard Form of Agreement.
4.0 - Markups and Fess for Changes in the Work - Additional Self-Performed Work - Overhead & Profit (in 
percent):
4.1 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Additional Second Tier Subcontractor Work - Overhead & 
Profit (in percent): 
4.2 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Deductive Self-Performed Work - Overhead & Profit (in 
percent): 
156 of 574

--- page 157 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0135 - Dust Control & Street Sweeping - R1
178,761.17
Subcontractor Quote:
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
Evans Brothers, Inc.
2/25/2020
4.3 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Deductive Second Tier Subcontractor Work - Overhead & 
Profit (in percent): 
5.0 - MBE/WBE Participation - Amount of participation by certified firms included in net bid (100% if bidder 
is certified) represented by percentage: 
5.1 - MBE/WBE Participation - Amount of participation by Certified Firms included in net bid (2nd, 3rd Tier 
Subcontractors/Suppliers) represented by percentage: 
5.2 - MBE/WBE Participation - Dollar Value of participation included in Net Bid: 
2.11 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are in 
full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit J - City of San Mateo Business cooperation/Use tax 
 
enhancement program and any excep,ons have been listed in Ques,on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.12 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are in 
full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit K - City of San Mateo Contractors Questionnaire and any 
 
excep,ons have been listed in Ques,on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.13 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are in 
full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit L - San Mateo WWTP - BAAQMD Scope requirements - 
Basic construction mitigation measures and any exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of this Bid 
 
Form.
2.14 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are in 
full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit M - Prevailing Wages and any exceptions have been listed 
 
in Ques,on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.15 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are in 
full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit N - Lean Construction and any exceptions have been listed 
 
in Ques,on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.16 - Bidder certifies that they have included all required spare parts, training, submittals, O&M manuals, 
shop drawings and installation checks, etc. as listed in the Specifications. Any exceptions shall be listed in 
 
Ques,on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.17 - Bidder certifies that the price listed on this Bid Form is a firm price through the final delivery of the 
equipment/materials proposed herein, and that no material escalations will be accepted as part of any 
 
subsequent Agreement. Any excep,ons have been listed in Ques,on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
157 of 574

--- page 158 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0135 - Dust Control & Street Sweeping - R1
178,761.17
Subcontractor Quote:
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
Evans Brothers, Inc.
2/25/2020
2.18 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, the Bidder confirms that they are in agreement with, 
understand, and have included any additional costs that may be associated with providing all warranties as 
 
stated within the Bidding Documents including applicable Speciﬁca,ons.
2.19 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder acknowledges that a complete SUBCONTRACTOR 
QUALIFICATION FORM, and its associated requirements, must be complete before Sundt will consider 
issuing a Subcontract. Please contact Andre Castaneda at 480-293-3130, acastaneda@sundt.com to 
 
validate your company’s prequaliﬁca,on status.
Code Scope 
Service Provider will ensure all personnel are experienced and qualified to complete the Work. Service 
Provider will also ensure that all employees are legally able to work on the Project Site.  Service Provider 
shall supplement construction labor immediately if the Work falls behind the agreed upon schedule at 
Service Provider’s expense. 
All training required to meet manufacturers or industry standards is to be included including any trade 
qualifications required.   
Perform all work in accordance with plans, specifications and all applicable local, state and federal codes 
and standards. 
Service Provider will adhere to all requirements of Sundt’s site specific and standard safety policies 
without exception. 
Service Provider’s construction equipment shall be properly sized to safely and efficiently handle the 
intended work activities.  Service Provider equipment is subject to inspection at the discretion of the 
CMAR.  Equipment that does not conform to the National, State, Local and Site requirements and 
manufacturer specifications shall be promptly repaired or replaced with equipment acceptable to CMAR 
without additional cost to the CMAR and without delay to the schedule.  
Equipment shall be properly maintained and be free of oil, fuel or chemical leaks.  Containment and 
protection against leaks and spills will be installed in accordance with local and state requirements.  
Service Provider shall immediately report, clean and properly dispose of any oils, fuels, or chemicals spilled 
onto the project site, including any spill contaminated soils.
Service Provider will participate in Sundt Construction scheduling meetings including all required Lean Pull 
Planning Sessions, 6 weeks look ahead meetings (held weekly) and other meetings as required to ensure 
accuracy and completeness of Sundt Construction Schedule.  Service Provider shall attend other meetings 
as required to coordinate, plan or otherwise participate with project teams.
extent possible, “local” labor.  Upon award, the selected Service Provider for this scope of work will 
provide a local labor hire plan for review and approval.  Local hire plan will demonstrate good faith effort 
and best practices for hiring of local labor.  “Local” is considered to include all localities within the 9 bay 
area counties.
Project Specific - The City of San Mateo is implementing a Project Labor Agreement (PLA) on the project.  
All costs will need to be included for the implementation of this PLA in the subcontractor’s bid price.   
158 of 574

--- page 159 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0135 - Dust Control & Street Sweeping - R1
178,761.17
Subcontractor Quote:
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
Evans Brothers, Inc.
2/25/2020
Item Description
UOM
Quantity
$ Unit Price
$ Total
Cost Per Trip (Based on 7.5 Hour Trip) - Street Sweeping Standard @ 
$1,426 / Day.  Water Truck Cost per Day -$1,217/Day
EA
130
$540.00
160,886.84
Taxes
LS
1
$17,874.33
17,874.33
Project Specific -  The Project is subject to Prevailing Wage Rates and Certified Payrolls.  Service Provider 
will adhere to all requirements of the California Department of Industrial Relations.  See Exhibit 
N_Prevailing Wages and Attachment 1_Sample Agreements for additional direction.
WIFIA funding requirements including, but not limited to, American Iron & Steel requirements.  In 
addition, WIFIA requires that the project includes Davis Bacon Labor requirements.  Subcontractor will 
review Prevailing Wage and Davis Bacon Labor and include the more stringent of the two.  WIFIA funding 
requirements can be found here: https://www.epa.gov/wifia/wifia-resources#handbook
Mobilization and site set-up, including but not limited to labor and equipment deployment. 
Develop a submittal plan for a 1x per day dust control and street sweep operation for the duration of the 
project. 
Operate and manage street sweep and dust control operation per submitted plan for the duration of the 
project. 
Create and maintain a daily activity log for the street sweep and dust control operation for the duration of 
the project. 
Maintain own water source (water wagon/water tank) for the street sweep and dust control operation for 
the duration of the project. 
Bid Breakdown
Demobilization and site close-out:  Remove any equipment and related site support water source. 
Project Specific - This project has a liquidated damages clause listed in Section 6.6 of the Prime Contract 
and section 10 of the Sundt standard contract, based on the Substantial Complete date set at $5,000 per 
day.  The Substantial Complete date is will be finalized upon approval of the GMP2 Baseline Schedule as 
noted in 6.2.1.  Please refer to the preliminary schedule (bidding document Exhibit C). 
Yes
159 of 574

--- page 160 ---
EVANS BROTHERS INC.
7589 NATIONAL DRIVE

LIVERMORE, CA 94550-8803
CONT. LIC.-443018

February 27, 2020

Andre Castaneda
Sundt

2620 S. 55" Street
Tempe, AZ 85282

Andre,

Bi

Per our phone conversation, the following would be Unit Pricing to complete the below

listed scopes.

Daily Rate for 2-man Labor Crew W/Pickup Truck = $1,217.00/Day

Daily Rate for 2000-Gal Water Truck Operated by one of our laborers = $1,099.00

Supply 6” Fiber Roll = $36.00/25'

Wood Stakes for Fiber Roll/50 Ct bundle/ = $68.00
Prefilled Sandbags = $5.50 EA

SDDI Liner = $125.00/EA

Street Sweeping = $1,426.00/Day plus travel time. Travel time is usually invoiced at 1.5

hours at the hourly rate of 178.25/hr.

Please let me know if you need something else

a

Kelvin Love
Estimator/Project Manager
Evans Brothers, Inc.

TEL (925) 443-0225 www.evansbrothers.com

FAX (925) 443-0229

160 of 574



--- page 161 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
2/27/2020
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0136 - SWPPP - R1
60,560.40
$      
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
HydroCompliance
Peter Thorne
12/13/2019
Response
Questions
Project Scope 
Subcontractor Quote:
General Information
2.1 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of the plans and specifications (including appendices), 
 
and any excep5ons have been listed in Ques5on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.2 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit A - Scope of Work Directive, and any 
exceptions in this Bid Form. 
2.3 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit B - Instructions to Bidders, and any 
exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of this Bid Form. 
2.4 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit C - Project Schedule (if a Schedule was 
provided), and any exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of this Bid Form. 
2.5 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit D - Sundt Safety System Manual, and any 
 
excep5ons have been listed in Ques5on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.6 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit E - List of Contract Documents, and any 
 
excep5ons have been listed in Ques5on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.7 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit F - Quality Systems Manual, and any 
 
excep5ons have been listed in Ques5on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.8 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit G - Insurance Manual, and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques5on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.9 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit H - Textura Overview and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques5on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
161 of 574

--- page 162 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
2/27/2020
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0136 - SWPPP - R1
60,560.40
$      
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
HydroCompliance
Peter Thorne
12/13/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
2.10 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all flow-down requirements of Exhibit I - Prime Contract, and any 
 
excep5ons have been listed in Ques5on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
1.1 - By signature below, Bidder acknowledges that it has read Sundt’s Attachment 1 Sample Form 
of Agreement, and (a) agrees to all the terms and conditions of the Sample Form of Agreement, or 
(b) has provided Sundt with a redlined copy of the Sample Form of Agreement, or (c) has provided 
Sundt with a list of specific exceptions referenced by paragraph number. Note that failure to sign 
this acknowledgment may result in this Bid being considered non-responsive and subject to 
6.0 - The bidder acknowledges the right of Sundt Construction, Inc. and/or the Owner to reject any 
and all bids, and to waive any informality or irregularity in any bid received, or to negotiate 
contract terms with the various Bidders, when such is deemed by Sundt Construction, Inc. and/or 
the Owner to be in the best interest of the Project.  (Electronic Signature) 
3.1 - Identify any items included in this Bid, and related to the work of this Bid Package, that are 
 
not in compliance with the Bidding Documents.
3.2 - Identify any and all elements related the work of this Bid Package that are excluded from this 
 
Bid, or related elements that are assumed by Bidder to be provided by others.
3.3 - Clarify design elements that are absent from the Bidding Document effecting the 
 
warrantability of the work to be provided under this Bid Package.
3.4 - Shop drawing and submittal preparation lead time:
3.5 - Fabrication & delivery lead time:
3.6 - Qualifications or exceptions to any procedures described in the Instructions to Bidders shall be 
 
listed below.  This includes any excep5ons to the Sample Standard Form of Agreement.
4.0 - Markups and Fess for Changes in the Work - Additional Self-Performed Work - Overhead & 
Profit (in percent):
162 of 574

--- page 163 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
2/27/2020
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0136 - SWPPP - R1
60,560.40
$      
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
HydroCompliance
Peter Thorne
12/13/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
4.1 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Additional Second Tier Subcontractor Work - 
Overhead & Profit (in percent): 
4.2 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Deductive Self-Performed Work - Overhead & Profit 
(in percent): 
4.3 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Deductive Second Tier Subcontractor Work - 
Overhead & Profit (in percent): 
5.0 - MBE/WBE Participation - Amount of participation by certified firms included in net bid (100% 
if bidder is certified) represented by percentage: 
5.1 - MBE/WBE Participation - Amount of participation by Certified Firms included in net bid (2nd, 
3rd Tier Subcontractors/Suppliers) represented by percentage: 
5.2 - MBE/WBE Participation - Dollar Value of participation included in Net Bid: 
2.11 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit J - City of San Mateo Business 
cooperation/Use tax enhancement program and any exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of 
 
this Bid Form.
2.12 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit K - City of San Mateo Contractors 
 
Ques5onnaire and any excep5ons have been listed in Ques5on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.13 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit L - San Mateo WWTP - BAAQMD Scope 
requirements - Basic construction mitigation measures and any exceptions have been listed in 
 
Ques5on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.14 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit M - Prevailing Wages and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques5on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
163 of 574

--- page 164 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
2/27/2020
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0136 - SWPPP - R1
60,560.40
$      
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
HydroCompliance
Peter Thorne
12/13/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
2.15 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit N - Lean Construction and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques5on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.16 - Bidder certifies that they have included all required spare parts, training, submittals, O&M 
manuals, shop drawings and installation checks, etc. as listed in the Specifications. Any exceptions 
 
shall be listed in Ques5on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.17 - Bidder certifies that the price listed on this Bid Form is a firm price through the final delivery 
of the equipment/materials proposed herein, and that no material escalations will be accepted as 
part of any subsequent Agreement. Any exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of this Bid 
 
Form.
2.18 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, the Bidder confirms that they are in agreement 
with, understand, and have included any additional costs that may be associated with providing all 
 
warran5es as stated within the Bidding Documents including applicable Speciﬁca5ons.
2.19 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder acknowledges that a complete 
SUBCONTRACTOR QUALIFICATION FORM, and its associated requirements, must be complete 
before Sundt will consider issuing a Subcontract. Please contact Andre Castaneda at 480-293-3130, 
 
acastaneda@sundt.com to validate your company’s prequaliﬁca5on status.
Code Scope 
Service Provider will ensure all personnel are experienced and qualified to complete the Work. 
Service Provider will also ensure that all employees are legally able to work on the Project Site.  
Service Provider shall supplement construction labor immediately if the Work falls behind the 
agreed upon schedule at Service Provider’s expense. 
Yes
All training required to meet manufacturers or industry standards is to be included including any 
trade qualifications required.  
Yes
Perform all work in accordance with plans, specifications and all applicable local, state and federal 
codes and standards. 
Yes
Service Provider will adhere to all requirements of Sundt’s site specific and standard safety policies 
without exception. 
Yes
164 of 574

--- page 165 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
2/27/2020
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0136 - SWPPP - R1
60,560.40
$      
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
HydroCompliance
Peter Thorne
12/13/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
Item Description
UOM
Quantity
$ Total
$ Total
SWPPP Maintenance of BMP's
EA
18
1,820.00
$           
32,760.00
$         
Replace Materials During Construction as needed
EA
18
200.00
$               
3,600.00
$           
Inspections (2x Per Month)
EA
12
1,600.00
$           
19,200.00
$         
Taxes
LS
1
5,000.40
$           
5,000.40
$           
Service Provider’s construction equipment shall be properly sized to safely and efficiently handle 
the intended work activities.  Service Provider equipment is subject to inspection at the discretion 
of the CMAR.  Equipment that does not conform to the National, State, Local and Site requirements 
and manufacturer specifications shall be promptly repaired or replaced with equipment acceptable 
to CMAR without additional cost to the CMAR and without delay to the schedule.  
Yes
Equipment shall be properly maintained and be free of oil, fuel or chemical leaks.  Containment 
and protection against leaks and spills will be installed in accordance with local and state 
requirements.  Service Provider shall immediately report, clean and properly dispose of any oils, 
fuels, or chemicals spilled onto the project site, including any spill contaminated soils.
Yes
Lean Pull Planning Sessions, 6 weeks look ahead meetings (held weekly) and other meetings as 
required to ensure accuracy and completeness of Sundt Construction Schedule.  Service Provider 
shall attend other meetings as required to coordinate, plan or otherwise participate with project 
teams.
Yes
greatest extent possible, “local” labor.  Upon award, the selected Service Provider for this scope of 
work will provide a local labor hire plan for review and approval.  Local hire plan will demonstrate 
good faith effort and best practices for hiring of local labor.  “Local” is considered to include all 
localities within the 9 bay area counties.
Yes
Yes
Project Specific - The City of San Mateo is considering implementation of a Project Labor 
Agreement (PLA) on the project.  Should the City of San Mateo decide to implement the PLA, 
Service Provider will be allowed to review PLA terms and provide any cost adjustments needed.
Yes
Project Specific -  The Project is subject to Prevailing Wage Rates and Certified Payrolls.  Service 
Provider will adhere to all requirements of the California Department of Industrial Relations.  See 
Exhibit N_Prevailing Wages and Attachment 1_Sample Agreements for additional direction.
Yes
Bid Breakdown
Project Specific - This project is pursuing WIFIA funding.  Subcontractor will review and include 
applicable WIFIA funding requirements including, but not limited to, American Iron & Steel 
requirements.  In addition, WIFIA requires that the project includes Davis Bacon Labor 
requirements.  Subcontractor will review Prevailing Wage and Davis Bacon Labor and include the 
more stringent of the two.  WIFIA funding requirements can be found here: 
Yes
Project Specific - This project has a liquidated damages clause listed in Section 6.6 of the Prime 
Contract based on the Substantial Complete date set at $5,000 per day.  The Substantial Complete 
date is will be finalized upon approval of the GMP2 Baseline Schedule as noted in 6.2.1.  Please 
refer to the preliminary schedule (bidding document Exhibit C). 
165 of 574

--- page 166 ---
24 February 2020 
 
Douglas Lenz – (480) 293-3004 
Sundt Construction, Inc. 
2620 S 55th Street 
Tempe, AZ 85282 
 
PROPOSAL:  San Mateo WWTP GMP 1, 2, and 3 - QSP Services 
 
Thank you for considering HydroCompliance (HC), for your storm water compliance needs for the San Mateo 
WWTP project in San Mateo, California.  HC personnel include a Registered Civil Engineer, Construction and 
Industrial General Permit Qualified Trainers of Record, Certified Professionals in Erosion and Sediment Control, 
and Certified Erosion, Sediment, and Storm Water Inspectors that are State Certified, Qualified SWPPP 
Developers (QSD), Qualified SWPPP Practitioners (QSP), and Qualified Industrial Stormwater Practitioners 
(QISP). 
 
HydroCompliance offers the following services: 
 
1. 
HydroCompliance proposes to provide QSP services to include Quarterly Non-Stormwater Inspections, Weekly 
Inspections, Weather Monitoring, Rain Event Action Plans (REAPs), Pre-storm Inspections, Inspections each 24 
hours during extended storm events, Post Storm Inspections, Sampling and Data Assembly with upload to 
SMARTS, Annual Reports, Notice of Termination, 5 hours per year of professional representation should the 
need arise (meeting with the RWQCB, contractor training, etc.), SWPPP Amendments, and Changes of 
Information as required for Risk Level 2 projects having coverage under “Order No. 2009-0009-DWQ, National 
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System General Permit for Storm Water Discharges Associated with 
Construction and Land Disturbance Activities” (CGP) at an all-inclusive monthly rate.  A brief meeting will 
occur during each inspection should the superintendent be available, and inspection reports will be emailed to 
the superintendent for printing and inclusion in the SWPPP Inspection Binder. 
 
HydroCompliance is responsible for inspection and reporting, and will not be held responsible should the 
Owner, Contractor, or its chosen subcontractors not implement corrective actions or address concerns 
supplied in the reports prepared by HydroCompliance.  This proposal assumes typical Monday thru Friday 
workdays and hours and that no work will occur on Federal Holidays.  Saturday, Sunday, and Federal Holiday 
inspections will be completed at an additional $300 each.  If occasional night work is anticipated, and if HC is 
required to inspect, each night inspection will incur an additional fee of $450.  If failure to implement 
corrective actions or address documented concerns leads to a Numeric Action Level (NAL) Exceedance, the 
project will be charged $200 to prepare an NAL Exceedance Evaluation Report. 
 
Please note that the Construction General Permit is well past due for a new release.  At the time of such release, 
the rates contained within this proposal may be modified depending on any reduction or increase in inspection 
and monitoring requirements based on the newly released CGP. 
 
 
SCOPE OF WORK 
 
 
 
Task 1  Risk Level 2 – Monthly QSP Services w/Sampling .................................................... $1,600 / month 
 
HC will provide any additional services within their ability according to HC’s current Schedule of Rates and 
Charges.   
 
The following are specifically excluded:  State, Federal, and local fees and fines; BMP installation; local agency 
requirements; sample collection, transport, and analysis other than pH and turbidity; sediment basin design (if 
required); and ATS design and operation. 
 
We are looking forward to working with you! 
 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
 
 
_____________________________  
                                     _______________________________________ 
Peter K. Thorne, President 
 
 
 
 
        Accepted 
166 of 574

--- page 167 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
2/27/2020
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0155 - CMAR Trafffic Control - R1
$32,643.32
2.8 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit G - Insurance Manual, and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques-on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.9 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit H - Textura Overview and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques-on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.3 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit B - Instructions to Bidders, and any 
exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of this Bid Form. 
2.4 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit C - Project Schedule (if a Schedule was 
provided), and any exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of this Bid Form. 
2.5 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit D - Sundt Safety System Manual, and any 
 
excep-ons have been listed in Ques-on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.6 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit E - List of Contract Documents, and any 
 
excep-ons have been listed in Ques-on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.7 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit F - Quality Systems Manual, and any 
 
excep-ons have been listed in Ques-on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Response
Questions
Project Scope 
Subcontractor Quote:
General Information
2.1 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of the plans and specifications (including appendices), 
 
and any excep-ons have been listed in Ques-on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.2 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit A - Scope of Work Directive, and any 
exceptions in this Bid Form. 
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
CMC TRAFFIC CONTROL SPECIALISTS
(415) 206-1700
12/13/2019
167 of 574

--- page 168 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
2/27/2020
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0155 - CMAR Trafffic Control - R1
$32,643.32
Subcontractor Quote:
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
CMC TRAFFIC CONTROL SPECIALISTS
(415) 206-1700
12/13/2019
3.6 - Qualifications or exceptions to any procedures described in the Instructions to Bidders shall be 
 
listed below.  This includes any excep-ons to the Sample Standard Form of Agreement.
4.0 - Markups and Fess for Changes in the Work - Additional Self-Performed Work - Overhead & 
Profit (in percent):
3.1 - Identify any items included in this Bid, and related to the work of this Bid Package, that are 
 
not in compliance with the Bidding Documents.
3.2 - Identify any and all elements related the work of this Bid Package that are excluded from this 
 
Bid, or related elements that are assumed by Bidder to be provided by others.
3.3 - Clarify design elements that are absent from the Bidding Document effecting the 
 
warrantability of the work to be provided under this Bid Package.
3.4 - Shop drawing and submittal preparation lead time:
3.5 - Fabrication & delivery lead time:
2.10 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all flow-down requirements of Exhibit I - Prime Contract, and any 
 
excep-ons have been listed in Ques-on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
1.1 - By signature below, Bidder acknowledges that it has read Sundt’s Attachment 1 Sample Form 
of Agreement, and (a) agrees to all the terms and conditions of the Sample Form of Agreement, or 
(b) has provided Sundt with a redlined copy of the Sample Form of Agreement, or (c) has provided 
Sundt with a list of specific exceptions referenced by paragraph number. Note that failure to sign 
this acknowledgment may result in this Bid being considered non-responsive and subject to 
6.0 - The bidder acknowledges the right of Sundt Construction, Inc. and/or the Owner to reject any 
and all bids, and to waive any informality or irregularity in any bid received, or to negotiate 
contract terms with the various Bidders, when such is deemed by Sundt Construction, Inc. and/or 
the Owner to be in the best interest of the Project.  (Electronic Signature) 
168 of 574

--- page 169 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
2/27/2020
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0155 - CMAR Trafffic Control - R1
$32,643.32
Subcontractor Quote:
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
CMC TRAFFIC CONTROL SPECIALISTS
(415) 206-1700
12/13/2019
2.13 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit L - San Mateo WWTP - BAAQMD Scope 
requirements - Basic construction mitigation measures and any exceptions have been listed in 
 
Ques-on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.14 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit M - Prevailing Wages and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques-on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
5.0 - MBE/WBE Participation - Amount of participation by certified firms included in net bid (100% 
if bidder is certified) represented by percentage: 
5.1 - MBE/WBE Participation - Amount of participation by Certified Firms included in net bid (2nd, 
3rd Tier Subcontractors/Suppliers) represented by percentage: 
5.2 - MBE/WBE Participation - Dollar Value of participation included in Net Bid: 
2.11 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit J - City of San Mateo Business 
cooperation/Use tax enhancement program and any exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of 
 
this Bid Form.
2.12 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit K - City of San Mateo Contractors 
 
Ques-onnaire and any excep-ons have been listed in Ques-on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
4.1 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Additional Second Tier Subcontractor Work - 
Overhead & Profit (in percent): 
4.2 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Deductive Self-Performed Work - Overhead & Profit 
(in percent): 
4.3 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Deductive Second Tier Subcontractor Work - 
Overhead & Profit (in percent): 
169 of 574

--- page 170 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
2/27/2020
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0155 - CMAR Trafffic Control - R1
$32,643.32
Subcontractor Quote:
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
CMC TRAFFIC CONTROL SPECIALISTS
(415) 206-1700
12/13/2019
Perform all work in accordance with plans, specifications and all applicable local, state and federal 
codes and standards. 
Subcontractor will adhere to all requirements of Sundt’s site specific and standard safety policies 
without exception. 
2.18 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, the Bidder confirms that they are in agreement 
with, understand, and have included any additional costs that may be associated with providing all 
 
warran-es as stated within the Bidding Documents including applicable Speciﬁca-ons.
2.19 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder acknowledges that a complete 
SUBCONTRACTOR QUALIFICATION FORM, and its associated requirements, must be complete 
before Sundt will consider issuing a Subcontract. Please contact Andre Castaneda at 480-293-3130, 
 
acastaneda@sundt.com to validate your company’s prequaliﬁca-on status.
Code Scope 
Subcontractor will ensure all personnel are experienced and qualified to complete the Work. 
Subcontractor will also ensure that all employees are legally able to work on the Project Site.  
Subcontractor shall supplement construction labor immediately if the Work falls behind the agreed 
upon schedule at Subcontractor's expense. 
All training required to meet manufacturers or industry standards is to be included including any 
trade qualifications required.   
2.15 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit N - Lean Construction and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques-on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.16 - Bidder certifies that they have included all required spare parts, training, submittals, O&M 
manuals, shop drawings and installation checks, etc. as listed in the Specifications. Any exceptions 
 
shall be listed in Ques-on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.17 - Bidder certifies that the price listed on this Bid Form is a firm price through the final delivery 
of the equipment/materials proposed herein, and that no material escalations will be accepted as 
part of any subsequent Agreement. Any exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of this Bid 
 
Form.
170 of 574

--- page 171 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
2/27/2020
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0155 - CMAR Trafffic Control - R1
$32,643.32
Subcontractor Quote:
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
CMC TRAFFIC CONTROL SPECIALISTS
(415) 206-1700
12/13/2019
Project Specific -  The Project is subject to Prevailing Wage Rates and Certified Payrolls.  
Subcontractor will adhere to all requirements of the California Department of Industrial Relations.  
See Exhibit N_Prevailing Wages and Attachment 1_Sample Agreements for additional direction.
Project Specific - This project is pursuing WIFIA funding.  Subcontractor will review and include 
applicable WIFIA funding requirements including, but not limited to, American Iron & Steel 
requirements.  In addition, WIFIA requires that the project i 
pertains to their Work. Project specific SWPPP requires Best Management Practices (BMPs) to be in 
place prior to any excavation. BMP coordination is the responsibility of the Subcontractor. 
Subcontractor shall protect all SWPPP BMP installations from damage and repair any damage to 
BMPs caused by Subcontractor’s actions.
Cleanup of work area to be completed daily. Subcontractor is required to maintain a neat and 
orderly work area free of debris. 
similar to the WBS as shown on the bid breakdown.  Scope progress and payment progress will be 
based on rules of credit developed in conjunction with Sundt upon award of contract.  Upon award 
Subcontractor will provide adequate cost breakdown as required to fill out progress tracking 
reports.
greatest extent possible, “local” labor.  Upon award, the selected Subcontractor for this scope of 
work will provide a local labor hire plan for review and approval.  Local hire plan will demonstrate 
good faith effort and best practices for hiring of local labor.  “Local” is considered to include all 
localities within the 9 bay area counties.
 
Project Speciﬁc - 4.8The City of San Mateo is implemen-ng a Project Labor Agreement (PLA) on 
the project.  All costs will need to be included for the implementation of this PLA in the 
subcontractor’s bid price.  
intended work activities.  Subcontractor equipment is subject to inspection at the discretion of the 
CMAR.  Equipment that does not conform to the National, State, Local and Site requirements and 
manufacturer specifications shall be promptly repaired or replaced with equipment acceptable to 
CMAR without additional cost to the CMAR and without delay to the schedule.
Equipment shall be properly maintained and be free of oil, fuel or chemical leaks.  Containment 
and protection against leaks and spills will be installed in accordance with local and state 
requirements.  Subcontractor shall immediately report, clean and properly dispose of any oils, 
fuels, or chemicals spilled onto the project site, including any spill contaminated soils.
Lean Pull Planning Sessions, 6 weeks look ahead meetings (held weekly) and other meetings as 
required to ensure accuracy and completeness of Sundt Construction Schedule.  Subcontractor 
shall attend other meetings as required to coordinate, plan or otherwise participate with project 
teams.
171 of 574

--- page 172 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
2/27/2020
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0155 - CMAR Trafffic Control - R1
$32,643.32
Subcontractor Quote:
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
CMC TRAFFIC CONTROL SPECIALISTS
(415) 206-1700
12/13/2019
Item Description
UOM
Quantity
$ Unit Price
$ Total
Traffic Control Plan Revisions
HR
1
$6,000.00
$6,000.00
Type 3 Barricades
MO
48
$160.00
$7,680.00
Street Closed Signs
MO
48
$21.00
$1,008.00
Installation of Signs
HR
100
$80.00
$8,000.00
Installation Truck
HR
40
$40.00
$1,600.00
Portable Flashing Beacons
MO
12
$180.00
$2,160.00
Additional Traffic Control (Cones)
LS
1
$3,500.00
3,500.00
Taxes
LS
1
$2,695.32
2,695.32
Project Specific - Furnish and install an integrated traffic signal system to manage traffic flow on 
the one lane access road that connects the off-site construction trailer yard to the new site.  
Electrical subcontractor will provide all conduits and wiring to provide power and control to and  
between the units.
Project Specific - This project has a liquidated damages clause listed in Section 6.6 of the Prime 
Contract based on the Substantial Complete date set at $5,000 per day.  The Substantial Complete 
date is will be finalized upon approval of the GMP2 Baseline Schedule as noted in 6.2.1.  Please 
refer to the preliminary schedule (bidding document Exhibit C). 
Yes
Bid Breakdown
Project Specific - Traffic control plan 
Project Specific - Traffic control crew and signage mobilization 
Project Specific - Operate and manage proposed traffic control plan (daily rate) 
172 of 574

--- page 173 ---
CMC Traffic Control Specialists, Inc. 
 
3450 3rd St, Suite 3G 
San Francisco, CA 94124 
Phone: (415) 206-1700         
Fax: (415) 206-1711 
info@cmctraffic.com 
www.cmctraffic.com 
CSLB License No. 792059 (A,C31,C32) 
SF Business Tax Reg. No. 356339 
SF Vendor No. 68165 
FEIN No. 01-0620791 
DIR Registration No. 1000006503 
WBE/DBE/SBE 
LBE Certified (A License) 
SFCMD Cert No. 021713710 
CUCP Firm ID No. 33473 
CA DGS ID No. 61410 
 
To: 
Sundt Construction, Inc. (attn Daniel) 
From: 
Kevin Rosencutter Kevin@CMCTraffic.com 
Phone: 
Pages: 3 
Fax: 
dsphillips@sundt.com  
Date: 
2/25/2020 2:27 PM 
Re: 
2019-256 - San Mateo WWTP Nutrient - 
Sundt 
CC: 
Urgent 
For Review 
Please Comment 
Please Reply 
Please Recycle 
 
    CMC 
Traffic Control Specialists 
  
3450 3rd St. Suite 3G, San Francisco, CA. 94124 
Contractor Lic. 792059 
SBE/LBE/WBE/UDBE/Micro Business Certified 
(415) 206-1700 – Fax (415) 206-1711 
www.cmctraffic.com 
info@cmctraffic.com 
ALL YOUR TRAFFIC CONTROL NEEDS 
RENTAL–SALES–ENGINEERING–CONTRACTING 
 
TRAFFIC PLANS 
TRAFFIC COUNTS 
PERMITS 
SIGN SHOP 
STRIPING 
LANE CLOSURES 
HIGHWAY CLOSURES 
PILOT CARS 
K-RAIL/CRASH 
CUSHIONS 
TC SUPERVISORS 
FLAGGERS 
WATER WALL 
BARRIERS 
TRAFFIC CONES 
SUPPLIES/SALES 
TEMPORARY 
SIGNALS 
LIGHT TOWERS 
CHANGEABLE 
MESSAGE BOARDS
 
173 of 574

--- page 174 ---
Confidential (Rev 08.01.19) 
Page 2 of 3 
2/25/2020 
 
Lane Closure Daily Rate on Conventional Road (per Caltrans drawing T11) 
$900 / DAY 
• Includes a 1 man crew with a pickup truck and up to 50 cones, 6 vinyl signs with stands, and arrow board 
• Rates include a shift of 8 hours ST.  ½ day minimum charge.  Full shift charge after 4 hours.   
• Add $50 per 8 hour shift for night work labor premium and $20 per portable flashing beacon 
• Hourly rates: OT day $135 / OT night $142.50 / DT day $160 / DT night $170 
• Mobilization and subsistence charges may apply based on scope of work, location, and schedule 
 
Lane Closure Daily Rate for Freeways (per Caltrans drawing T10) 
$1550 / DAY 
• Includes a 2 man crew with a pickup truck, up to 100 cones, 8 vinyl signs with stands, and arrow board. 
• Rates include a shift of 8 hours ST.  ½ day minimum charge.  Full shift charge after 4 hours.   
• Add $100 per 8 hour shift for night work labor premium and $20 per portable flashing beacon. 
• Hourly rates: OT day $245 / OT night $260 / DT day $300  / DT night $310  
• Add $1300 per 8 hr shift to include an operated attenuator truck ($1350 for night work).  Hourly rates: OT 
day $187.50 / OT night $195 / DT day $212.50 / DT night $222.50. Mobilization& idle time charges may 
apply. 
• Additional charges apply for closure of additional lanes. 
• Mobilization and subsistence charges may apply based on scope of work, location, and schedule 
 
Lane Closure with Reversible Lane (per Caltrans drawing T13) 
$1550 / DAY 
• Includes a 2 man crew with a pickup truck, up to 50 cones, 10 vinyl signs with stands, and 2 beacons. 
• Rates include a shift of 8 hours ST.  ½ day minimum charge.  Full shift charge after 4 hours.  
• Add $100 per 8 hour shift for night worklabor premium, $20/addt’lbeacon, and $225/shift/light tower. 
• Hourly rates: OT day $245 / OT night $260 / DT day $300  / DT night $310  
• Add $800 per 8 hr shift to include an operated pilot car ($850 for night work).  Hourly rates: OT day $125/ 
OT night $132.50 / DT day $150 / DT night $160. Mobilization & idle time charges may apply. 
• Rumble strips are not included.  Add $300/day + mobilization for 12ea, if required. 
• Lunch and breaks to be covered by the client or add $640 per 8 hr day shift for a 3rd flagger. 
 
Laborer Support Work (Hourly rate) 
$80 / HR ST, $105 / HR OT, $130 / HR DT 
• Rate does not include a pickup truck (please call for equipment rental rates) 
• Labor rates to be used in addition to lane closure daily rate 
• 4 hour minimum.  After 4 hrs a full 8 hr shift will be charged. 
• Add $5 per ST HR / $7.50 per OT HR / $10 per DT HR for night labor premium and $225/shift/light tower. 
• Laborers must be given rest and lunch breaks per union agreements and state law. 
• Add $10 per hr to rates for SFMTA bus de-polers (availability not guaranteed) 
 
Laborer Foreman (Hourly rate) 
$100 / HR ST, $125 / HR OT, $150 / HR DT 
• Rate includes pickup truck (please call for equipment rental rates) 
• Labor rates to be used in addition to lane closure daily rate 
• 4 hour minimum.  After 4 hrs a full 8 hr shift will be charged. 
• Add $5 per ST HR / $7.50 per OT HR / $10 per DT HR for night work labor premium 
• Laborers must be given rest and lunch breaks per union agreements and state law 
• Add $10 per hr to rates for SFMTA bus de-polers (availability not guaranteed) 
 
Traffic Control Drawings  
 
1st sheet for a project 
$600 LS 
 
Additional sheets 
$450 EA 
• 24”x36” sheet, 1”=50’ scale (or 11”x17”, 1”=100’ scale) 
• Includes stamp by licensed civil engineer 
• First revision is free.  Additional revisions will be billed hourly. 
• Price includes an emailed submittal only ($2.00/SF for color plotting + postage) 
• Hourly rate to attend meetings, site visits, permit assistance, multiple drawing revisions, etc. is $275 for 
principal, $175/HR for licensed engineer and $150/HR hour for junior engineer 
• Add $250 per sheet as a rush charge when a plan is needed with less than 1 week lead time and we are 
able to accommodate the request.  This fee will be charged at the discretion of CMC.  The 1 week 
minimum lead time is not a guarantee that plans can normally be completed in 1 week. 
 
174 of 574

--- page 175 ---
Confidential (Rev 08.01.19) 
Page 3 of 3 
2/25/2020 
TC Equipment Rental 
 
 
 
 
 
Daily 
Weekly  
28 Days 
 
CMS Board 
$225.00 
$700.00 
$1400.00 
 
Arrow board 
$85.00 
$255.00 
$650.00 
 
Radar Speed Trailer 
$225.00 
$700.00 
$1400.00 
 
Roll-up sign with sign stand 
$7.00 
$50.00 
$150.00 
 
Type I barricade 
$1.00 
$7.00 
$28.00 
 
Type III barricade 
$4.00 
$12.00 
$40.00 
 
Traffic cone 
$0.75 
$3.50 
$14.00 
 
Cone bar 
$2.00 
$6.00 
$18.00 
 
Portable tubular delineator with base 
$0.75 
$5.25 
$21.00 
 
Water-filled plastic barricades (Approx 2’ x 6’) 
$7.00 
$28.00 
 $80.00 
 
Plastic pedestrian barricade (Approx 3” x 6’) 
$5.00 
$20.00 
 $60.00 
 
Delineator drum 
$2.00 
$10.00 
 $40.00 
 
Type K concrete barriers (20 LF) 
$15.00 
$45.00 
$125.00 
 
SLED inline crash cushion TL3 
$90.00 
$270.00 
$800.00 
 
SLED inline crash cushion TL2 
$80.00 
$240.00 
$750.00 
 
Crash barrel array (price per barrel, unfilled) 
$10.00 
$30.00 
$80.00 
 
Portable flashing beacon 
$20.00 
$60.00 
$180.00 
 
Light Tower (dry rate – fuel not included) 
$150.00 
$450.00 
$900.00 
 
Temporary traffic signals (set of 2) 
$1000.00 
$2000.00 
$5500.00 
 
Caltrans Rumble Strips (set of 12 – 2 flagger stations) 
$300.00 
$1200.00 
$3600.00 
 
Aluminum signs (Per square foot) 
$1.00 
$7.00 
$21.00 
 
• 
Delivery, pickup, & damage charges apply.  3 day minimum on rental orders 
 
Traffic Control Equipment & Supply Sales 
Specific orders quoted upon request 
o 
Aluminum signs 
o 
Rollup signs 
o 
Sign stands 
o 
Traffic striping tape 
o 
K-rail and crash cushions 
o 
Cones 
o 
Delineators 
o 
Pedestiran barricades 
o 
Chip seal markers/floppies 
o 
Temporary chain link fence 
o 
Water filled barricades  
 
Pavement Striping  – Installation and Removal 
Specific jobs quoted upon request 
• Installation options: thermoplastic, paint, temporary tape 
• Removal: Grinding, black-out temporary tape, pressure washing 
 
Traffic Counts 
 
48-Hour ADT Mechanical Tube Count 
$1500 / COUNT 
 
Project Signs 
 
Fabrication (delivery & tax not included) 
$350 / EA 
Delivery & installation on existing fence 
$200 / EA 
Delivery & installation on wood stand 
$400 / EA 
Removal and disposal 
$150 / EA 
• 4' x 8'or 4’ x 6’ sign on 3/4” plywood substrate 
• Hi-resolution graphic file to be provided by the client.  Graphic editing will be billed at $150/HR 
• Add $150 for anti-graffiti film 
• Pricing is not based on project specific specifications and is valid for CCSF projects only.  Please 
call for a custom quote. 
 
No retention to be held on our work.  Pricing is not based on the review of any project-specific specification.  All project costs including project drug testing, safety training, Textura fees, etc to be 
marked up and billed to the client.  Mobilization, demobilization, subsistence, and  travel time charges apply based on scope of work, location, schedule, etc.  CMC’s typical service range consist 
of the following boundary: Santa Rosa to Sacramento to Stockton to Gilroy to Santa Cruz. We reserve the right to accept or decline work on a job to job basis.  Payment due net 30 days.  1.5% 
interest per month added to overdue invoices.  All rates shown above are discounted rates for payment by cash or check and require our client to have an account in good standing.  Please ask 
for our standard rates if you wish to pay by credit card.  CMC reserves the right to stop work for any client if invoices become past due.  Bonds and permits are excluded.  CMC will not indemnify 
or defend others.  We will not provide OCIP credits/deductions.  This quote must become a binding part of any contract and items cannot be split without prior permission,  Please call us to 
discuss our scope of work prior to listing us on a project.  Rates are valid thru 6/30/2020. 
X
Sign and Return to Indicate Acceptance
 
175 of 574

--- page 176 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
2/27/2020
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0180 - Survey - R1
75,569.70
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
HMHCA
David Stanton
2/25/2020
Response
Questions
Project Scope 
Subcontractor Quote:
General Information
2.1 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of the plans and specifications (including appendices), 
 
and any excep4ons have been listed in Ques4on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.2 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit A - Scope of Work Directive, and any 
exceptions in this Bid Form. 
2.3 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit B - Instructions to Bidders, and any 
exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of this Bid Form. 
2.4 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit C - Project Schedule (if a Schedule was 
provided), and any exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of this Bid Form. 
2.5 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit D - Sundt Safety System Manual, and any 
 
excep4ons have been listed in Ques4on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.6 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit E - List of Contract Documents, and any 
 
excep4ons have been listed in Ques4on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.7 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit F - Quality Systems Manual, and any 
 
excep4ons have been listed in Ques4on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.8 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit G - Insurance Manual, and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques4on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.9 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit H - Textura Overview and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques4on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
176 of 574

--- page 177 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
2/27/2020
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0180 - Survey - R1
75,569.70
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
HMHCA
David Stanton
2/25/2020
Subcontractor Quote:
2.10 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all flow-down requirements of Exhibit I - Prime Contract, and any 
 
excep4ons have been listed in Ques4on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
1.1 - By signature below, Bidder acknowledges that it has read Sundt’s Attachment 1 Sample Form 
of Agreement, and (a) agrees to all the terms and conditions of the Sample Form of Agreement, or 
(b) has provided Sundt with a redlined copy of the Sample Form of Agreement, or (c) has provided 
Sundt with a list of specific exceptions referenced by paragraph number. Note that failure to sign 
this acknowledgment may result in this Bid being considered non-responsive and subject to 
6.0 - The bidder acknowledges the right of Sundt Construction, Inc. and/or the Owner to reject any 
and all bids, and to waive any informality or irregularity in any bid received, or to negotiate 
contract terms with the various Bidders, when such is deemed by Sundt Construction, Inc. and/or 
the Owner to be in the best interest of the Project.  (Electronic Signature) 
3.1 - Identify any items included in this Bid, and related to the work of this Bid Package, that are 
 
not in compliance with the Bidding Documents.
3.2 - Identify any and all elements related the work of this Bid Package that are excluded from this 
 
Bid, or related elements that are assumed by Bidder to be provided by others.
3.3 - Clarify design elements that are absent from the Bidding Document effecting the 
 
warrantability of the work to be provided under this Bid Package.
3.4 - Shop drawing and submittal preparation lead time:
3.5 - Fabrication & delivery lead time:
3.6 - Qualifications or exceptions to any procedures described in the Instructions to Bidders shall be 
 
listed below.  This includes any excep4ons to the Sample Standard Form of Agreement.
177 of 574

--- page 178 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
2/27/2020
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0180 - Survey - R1
75,569.70
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
HMHCA
David Stanton
2/25/2020
Subcontractor Quote:
4.0 - Markups and Fess for Changes in the Work - Additional Self-Performed Work - Overhead & 
Profit (in percent):
4.1 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Additional Second Tier Subcontractor Work - 
Overhead & Profit (in percent): 
4.2 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Deductive Self-Performed Work - Overhead & Profit 
(in percent): 
4.3 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Deductive Second Tier Subcontractor Work - 
Overhead & Profit (in percent): 
5.0 - MBE/WBE Participation - Amount of participation by certified firms included in net bid (100% 
if bidder is certified) represented by percentage: 
5.1 - MBE/WBE Participation - Amount of participation by Certified Firms included in net bid (2nd, 
3rd Tier Subcontractors/Suppliers) represented by percentage: 
5.2 - MBE/WBE Participation - Dollar Value of participation included in Net Bid: 
2.11 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit J - City of San Mateo Business 
cooperation/Use tax enhancement program and any exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of 
 
this Bid Form.
2.12 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit K - City of San Mateo Contractors 
 
Ques4onnaire and any excep4ons have been listed in Ques4on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
178 of 574

--- page 179 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
2/27/2020
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0180 - Survey - R1
75,569.70
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
HMHCA
David Stanton
2/25/2020
Subcontractor Quote:
2.13 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit L - San Mateo WWTP - BAAQMD Scope 
requirements - Basic construction mitigation measures and any exceptions have been listed in 
 
Ques4on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.14 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit M - Prevailing Wages and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques4on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.15 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit N - Lean Construction and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques4on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.16 - Bidder certifies that they have included all required spare parts, training, submittals, O&M 
manuals, shop drawings and installation checks, etc. as listed in the Specifications. Any exceptions 
 
shall be listed in Ques4on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.17 - Bidder certifies that the price listed on this Bid Form is a firm price through the final delivery 
of the equipment/materials proposed herein, and that no material escalations will be accepted as 
part of any subsequent Agreement. Any exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of this Bid 
 
Form.
2.18 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, the Bidder confirms that they are in agreement 
with, understand, and have included any additional costs that may be associated with providing all 
 
warran4es as stated within the Bidding Documents including applicable Speciﬁca4ons.
2.19 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder acknowledges that a complete 
SUBCONTRACTOR QUALIFICATION FORM, and its associated requirements, must be complete 
before Sundt will consider issuing a Subcontract. Please contact Andre Castaneda at 480-293-3130, 
 
acastaneda@sundt.com to validate your company’s prequaliﬁca4on status.
Code Scope 
All training required to meet manufacturers or industry standards is to be included including any 
trade qualifications required.   
Participate and comply with Contractor Quality Assurance/Quality Control Plan. 
179 of 574

--- page 180 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
2/27/2020
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0180 - Survey - R1
75,569.70
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
HMHCA
David Stanton
2/25/2020
Subcontractor Quote:
Active participation in project required meetings. 
One mobilization is included.  Additional mobilizations will incur additional charges. 
Subcontractor is held accountable for any delays incurred by not following the contract submittal 
procedures. 
Pricing is valid through ihe duration of the project. No escalations will be allowed. 
All necessary safety training (Confined space, fall protection, AWP, etc.) will be provided by the 
subcontractor.  
Perform all work in accordance with plans, specifications and all applicable local, state and federal 
codes and standards. 
Service Provider will adhere to all requirements of Sundt’s site specific and standard safety policies 
without exception. 
Subcontractor’s construction equipment shall be properly sized to safely and efficiently handle the 
intended work activities.  Subcontractor equipment is subject to inspection at the discretion of the 
CMAR.  Equipment that does not conform to the National, State, Local and Site requirements and 
manufacturer specifications shall be promptly repaired or replaced with equipment acceptable to 
CMAR without additional cost to the CMAR and without delay to the schedule. 
greatest extent possible, “local” labor.  Upon award, the selected Service Provider for this scope of 
work will provide a local labor hire plan for review and approval.  Local hire plan will demonstrate 
good faith effort and best practices for hiring of local labor.  “Local” is considered to include all 
localities within the 9 bay area counties.
180 of 574

--- page 181 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
2/27/2020
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0180 - Survey - R1
75,569.70
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
HMHCA
David Stanton
2/25/2020
Subcontractor Quote:
Bid Breakdown
Item Description
UOM
Quantity
$ Unit Price
$ Total
Field Services - 2-Man Field Crew
HR
152
                      
264.00
$               
40,080.00
$         
Field Services - Principals
HR
24
350.00
$               
8,400.00
$           
Professional Services - Civil Engineering, Land Surveying, or 
Landscape Architect Manager
EA
1
5,000.00
$            
5,000.00
$            
Misc. Transportation and Incidental Costs
LS
1
10,000.00
$         
10,000.00
$         
Misc. Materials - Pile Markers
EA
1950
3.00
$                   
5,850.00
$           
Taxes
LS
1
6,239.70
$           
6,239.70
$           
 
Project Speciﬁc - 4.9The City of San Mateo is implemen4ng a Project Labor Agreement (PLA) on 
the project.  All costs will need to be included for the implementation of this PLA in the 
subcontractor’s bid price.   
Equipment shall be properly maintained and be free of oil, fuel or chemical leaks.  Containment 
and protection against leaks and spills will be installed in accordance with local and state 
requirements.  Service Provider shall immediately report, clean and properly dispose of any oils, 
fuels, or chemicals spilled onto the project site, including any spill contaminated soils.
Project Specific - The Project is subject to Prevailing Wage Rates and Certified Payrolls.  Service 
Provider will adhere to all requirements of the California Department of Industrial Relations 
including labor rates and apprenticeship requirements.  See Exhibit N_Prevailing Wages and 
Attachment 1_Sample Agreements for additional direction.
Project Specific - This project is pursuing WIFIA funding.  Subcontractor will review and include 
applicable WIFIA funding requirements including, but not limited to, American Iron & Steel 
requirements.  In addition, WIFIA requires that the project includes Davis Bacon Labor 
requirements.  Subcontractor will review Prevailing Wage and Davis Bacon Labor and include the 
more stringent of the two.  WIFIA funding requirements can be found here:  
Project Specific - This project has a liquidated damages clause listed in Section 6.6 of the Prime 
Contract based on the Substantial Complete date set at $5,000 per day and $2,500 per day for Final 
Completion.  The Substantial Complete date is will be finalized upon approval of the GMP2 Baseline 
Schedule as noted in 6.2.1.  Please refer to the preliminary schedule (bidding document Exhibit C). Yes
Service Provider  shall provide all labor, material, equipment, and appurtenances as required to 
complete the described scope of work complete per plans, specifications, and contract documents.
181 of 574

--- page 182 ---
Client Initials 
 
Consultant Initials 
 
CHARGE RATE SCHEDULE 
Professional & Office 
 
Per Hour 
Civil Engineering, Land Surveying or Landscape Architect Manager 
$196 
Senior Civil Engineering or Land Surveying or Landscape Architect Manager 
$224 
Land Development Manager 
$198-250 
Senior Planner 
$214 
Senior Civil Engineer, Land Surveyor, or Landscape Architect 
$180 
Engineering Design Specialist 
 
  
$174 
Design Specialist 
$170-196 
Project Planner 
$194 
Project Civil Engineer, Land Surveyor, or Landscape Architect 
$166 
Project Arborist 
$156 
Engineer, Planner, Surveyor, or Landscape Designer 
$158 
Assistant Engineer, Surveyor, Planner, or Landscape Designer 
$142 
Junior Engineer, Surveyor, Planner, or Landscape Designer 
$132 
Senior Technician 
$144 
Project Technician 
$132 
Technician 
$122 
Assistant Technician 
$112 
Junior Technician 
$94 
Project Support Staff 
$88
 
Field Services 
 
Per Hour 
2-Man Field Crew 
$264 
3-Man Field Crew 
$346 
1-Man Field Crew 
$184 
Senior Field Engineer 
$174 
Field Engineer 
 $154 
 
Principals are Charged at $230.00 to $350.00 per hour 
Printing, Reproductions & Materials at Cost, Plus 20% 
Transportation at Cost, including mileage based upon IRS rates        
Other Outside Services at Cost, Plus 20% 
 
 
Rates are subject to adjustment July 1, 2020. 
 
182 of 574

--- page 183 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
12/19/2019
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0191 - Tower Cranes
$621,954.00
$485,616.80
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
12/13/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
 General Information
Companies:
Morrow Equipment Co.
Contact Name:
Chris Whittle
Phone:
707-644-3731x0207
2.3 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are in 
full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit B - Instructions to Bidders, and any exceptions have 
been listed in Question 3.1 of this Bid Form. 
2.4 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are in 
full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit C - Project Schedule (if a Schedule was provided), and 
any exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of this Bid Form. 
2.5 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are in 
full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit D - Sundt Safety System Manual, and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques:on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Questions
Response
Project Scope 
2.1 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are in 
full compliance with all requirements of the plans and specifications (including appendices), and any 
 
excep:ons have been listed in Ques:on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.2 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are in 
full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit A - Scope of Work Directive, and any exceptions in this 
Bid Form. 
2.9 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are in 
full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit H - Textura Overview and any exceptions have been 
 
listed in Ques:on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.10 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are 
in full compliance with all flow-down requirements of Exhibit I - Prime Contract, and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques:on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
y
g
g
p
Agreement, and (a) agrees to all the terms and conditions of the Sample Form of Agreement, or (b) 
has provided Sundt with a redlined copy of the Sample Form of Agreement, or (c) has provided Sundt 
with a list of specific exceptions referenced by paragraph number. Note that failure to sign this 
acknowledgment may result in this Bid being considered non-responsive and subject to 
disqualification. 
2.6 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are in 
full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit E - List of Contract Documents, and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques:on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.7 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are in 
full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit F - Quality Systems Manual, and any exceptions have 
 
been listed in Ques:on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.8 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are in 
full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit G - Insurance Manual, and any exceptions have been 
 
listed in Ques:on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
6.0 - The bidder acknowledges the right of Sundt Construction, Inc. and/or the Owner to reject any and 
all bids, and to waive any informality or irregularity in any bid received, or to negotiate contract terms 
with the various Bidders, when such is deemed by Sundt Construction, Inc. and/or the Owner to be in 
the best interest of the Project.  (Electronic Signature) 
3.1 - Identify any items included in this Bid, and related to the work of this Bid Package, that are not in 
 
compliance with the Bidding Documents.
Bigge Crane and Rigging Co.
Eric Hibler
510-638-8100
12/13/2019
Response
183 of 574

--- page 184 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
12/19/2019
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0191 - Tower Cranes
$621,954.00
$485,616.80
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
12/13/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
Companies:
Morrow Equipment Co.
Contact Name:
Chris Whittle
Phone:
707-644-3731x0207
Bigge Crane and Rigging Co.
Eric Hibler
510-638-8100
12/13/2019
3.3 - Clarify design elements that are absent from the Bidding Document effecting the warrantability 
 
of the work to be provided under this Bid Package.
3.4 - Shop drawing and submittal preparation lead time:
3.5 - Fabrication & delivery lead time:
3.2 - Identify any and all elements related the work of this Bid Package that are excluded from this Bid, 
 
or related elements that are assumed by Bidder to be provided by others.
4.2 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Deductive Self-Performed Work - Overhead & Profit (in 
percent): 
4.3 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Deductive Second Tier Subcontractor Work - Overhead 
& Profit (in percent): 
5.0 - MBE/WBE Participation - Amount of participation by certified firms included in net bid (100% if 
bidder is certified) represented by percentage: 
3.6 - Qualifications or exceptions to any procedures described in the Instructions to Bidders shall be 
 
listed below.  This includes any excep:ons to the Sample Standard Form of Agreement.
4.0 - Markups and Fess for Changes in the Work - Additional Self-Performed Work - Overhead & Profit 
(in percent):
4.1 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Additional Second Tier Subcontractor Work - Overhead 
& Profit (in percent): 
2.12 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are 
in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit K - City of San Mateo Contractors Questionnaire and 
 
any excep:ons have been listed in Ques:on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
5.1 - MBE/WBE Participation - Amount of participation by Certified Firms included in net bid (2nd, 3rd 
Tier Subcontractors/Suppliers) represented by percentage: 
5.2 - MBE/WBE Participation - Dollar Value of participation included in Net Bid: 
2.11 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are 
in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit J - City of San Mateo Business cooperation/Use tax 
 
enhancement program and any excep:ons have been listed in Ques:on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
184 of 574

--- page 185 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
12/19/2019
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0191 - Tower Cranes
$621,954.00
$485,616.80
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
12/13/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
Companies:
Morrow Equipment Co.
Contact Name:
Chris Whittle
Phone:
707-644-3731x0207
Bigge Crane and Rigging Co.
Eric Hibler
510-638-8100
12/13/2019
2.13 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are 
in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit L - San Mateo WWTP - BAAQMD Scope 
requirements - Basic construction mitigation measures and any exceptions have been listed in 
 
Ques:on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.14 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are 
in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit M - Prevailing Wages and any exceptions have been 
 
listed in Ques:on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.18 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, the Bidder confirms that they are in agreement with, 
understand, and have included any additional costs that may be associated with providing all 
 
warran:es as stated within the Bidding Documents including applicable Speciﬁca:ons.
2.19 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder acknowledges that a complete 
SUBCONTRACTOR QUALIFICATION FORM, and its associated requirements, must be complete before 
Sundt will consider issuing a Subcontract. Please contact Andre Castaneda at 480-293-3130, 
 
acastaneda@sundt.com to validate your company’s prequaliﬁca:on status.
Code Scope 
Subcontractor will ensure all personnel are experienced and qualified to complete the Work. 
Subcontractor will also ensure that all employees are legally able to work on the Project Site.  
Subcontractor shall supplement construction labor immediately if the Work falls behind the agreed 
upon schedule at Subcontractor's expense. 
2.15 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and are 
in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit N - Lean Construction and any exceptions have been 
 
listed in Ques:on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.16 - Bidder certifies that they have included all required spare parts, training, submittals, O&M 
manuals, shop drawings and installation checks, etc. as listed in the Specifications. Any exceptions shall 
 
be listed in Ques:on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.17 - Bidder certifies that the price listed on this Bid Form is a firm price through the final delivery of 
the equipment/materials proposed herein, and that no material escalations will be accepted as part of 
 
any subsequent Agreement. Any excep:ons have been listed in Ques:on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
q p
p
p
y
y
y
intended work activities.  Subcontractor equipment is subject to inspection at the discretion of the 
CMAR.  Equipment that does not conform to the National, State, Local and Site requirements and 
manufacturer specifications shall be promptly repaired or replaced with equipment acceptable to 
CMAR without additional cost to the CMAR and without delay to the schedule.
Equipment shall be properly maintained and be free of oil, fuel or chemical leaks.  Containment and 
protection against leaks and spills will be installed in accordance with local and state requirements.  
Subcontractor shall immediately report, clean and properly dispose of any oils, fuels, or chemicals 
spilled onto the project site, including any spill contaminated soils.
Subcontractor will participate in Sundt Construction scheduling meetings including all required Lean 
Pull Planning Sessions, 6 weeks look ahead meetings (held weekly) and other meetings as required to 
ensure accuracy and completeness of Sundt Construction Schedule.  Subcontractor shall attend other 
meetings as required to coordinate, plan or otherwise participate with project teams.
All training required to meet manufacturers or industry standards is to be included including any trade 
qualifications required.   
Perform all work in accordance with plans, specifications and all applicable local, state and federal 
codes and standards. 
Subcontractor will adhere to all requirements of Sundt’s site specific and standard safety policies 
without exception. 
185 of 574

--- page 186 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
12/19/2019
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0191 - Tower Cranes
$621,954.00
$485,616.80
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
12/13/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
Companies:
Morrow Equipment Co.
Contact Name:
Chris Whittle
Phone:
707-644-3731x0207
Bigge Crane and Rigging Co.
Eric Hibler
510-638-8100
12/13/2019
Item Description
UOM
Quantity
$ Unit Price
$ Total
Quantity
$ Unit Price
$ Total
TOWER CRANE No. 1
600 EC-H 20/40 Litronic
Comedil CTT721-40 (1 of 1)
Rental Rate including Service for Tower Cranes listed above
MO
3
$28,000.00
$84,000.00
3
$26,160.00
$78,480.00
Hours per month included? (260 hours will be typical/month)
260 hrs
260 hrs
Cost/HR for additional hours over quoted rates
MO
3 291 @ $63.75
$0.00
3 16 @ $120
$5,760.00
Inbound Freight
EA
1
$18,000.00
$18,000.00
1
$17,000.00
$17,000.00
Erection
EA
1
$100,000.00
$100,000.00
1
$80,000.00
$80,000.00
Outbound Freight
EA
0
$14,000.00
$0.00
1
$0.00
$0.00
Dismantle
EA
0
$100,000.00
$0.00
1
$0.00
$0.00
Foundation Anchors
LS
1
$16,550.00
$16,550.00
1
$18,000.00
$18,000.00
Other Items:   1) Technical Assistance (Morrow)
Days
20
$1,350.00
$27,000.00
20 N/A
2) Trip Charge (Morrow)
Days
20
$495.00
$9,900.00
20 N/A
3) Repair Monthly Charge (Morrow)
MO
3
$0.00
$0.00
3 N/A
4) ReTorque
EA
2
$0.00
$0.00
2
$0.00
$0.00
Service Agreement
MO
3
$1,500.00
$4,500.00
3
$1,000.00
$3,000.00
Stamped Foundation Design Drawings
LS
1
$5,700.00
$5,700.00
1
$2,000.00
$2,000.00
3rd Party Crane Cert - Initial
LS
1
$7,000.00
$7,000.00
1
$8,000.00
$8,000.00
Annual Inspection 
LS
1
$0.00
$0.00
1
$0.00
$0.00
Engineered Drawings
LS
1
$3,000.00
$3,000.00
1
$3,000.00
$3,000.00
Anchor Stools
LS
1 Included
1
$0.00
$0.00
Set Anchors
LS
1 Included
1
$0.00
$0.00
OSHA Certification
LS
1
$6,500.00
$6,500.00
1
$6,500.00
$6,500.00
NDT Certificate
LS
1 Included
1
$0.00
$0.00
Re-Torque Tower Bolts
LS
1
$0.00
$0.00
1
$0.00
$0.00
Temporary Security Enclosure Around Cab
LS
1
$2,000.00
$2,000.00
1
$2,000.00
$2,000.00
$0.00
TOWER CRANE No. 2
600 EC-H 20/40 Litronic
Comedil CTT721-40 (1 of 1)
Rental Rate including Service for Tower Cranes listed above
MO
3
$28,000.00
$84,000.00
3
$26,160.00
$78,480.00
Hours per month included? (260 hours will be typical/month)
200 hrs
200 hrs
Cost/HR for additional hours over quoted rates
MO
3 0 @ $77.78
3 16 @ $120
$0.00
Inbound Freight
EA
1
$18,000.00
$18,000.00
1
$17,000.00
$17,000.00
Erection
EA
1
$100,000.00
$100,000.00
1
$80,000.00
$80,000.00
Outbound Freight
EA
1
$0.00
$0.00
1
$0.00
$0.00
Dismantle
EA
1
$0.00
$0.00
1
$0.00
$0.00
Foundation Anchors
LS
1
$16,550.00
$16,550.00
1
$18,000.00
$18,000.00
Other Items:   1) Technical Assistance (Morrow)
Days
20
$1,350.00
$27,000.00
20 N/A
2) Trip Charge (Morrow)
Days
20
$495.00
$9,900.00
20 N/A
3) Repair Monthly Charge (Morrow)
MO
3
$0.00
$0.00
3 N/A
4) ReTorque
EA
2
$0.00
$0.00
2
$0.00
$0.00
Service Agreement (Stafford Crane)
LS
1
$0.00
$0.00
1
$0.00
$0.00
Stamped Foundation Design Drawings
LS
1
$5,700.00
$5,700.00
1
$2,000.00
$2,000.00
3rd Party Crane Cert - Initial
LS
1
$7,000.00
$7,000.00
1
$8,000.00
$8,000.00
Annual Inspection 
LS
1
$0.00
$0.00
1
$0.00
$0.00
Engineered Drawings
LS
1
$3,000.00
$3,000.00
1
$3,000.00
$3,000.00
Anchor Stools
LS
1 Included
1
$0.00
$0.00
Set Anchors
LS
1 Included
1
$0.00
$0.00
OSHA Certification
LS
1
$6,500.00
$6,500.00
1
$6,500.00
$6,500.00
 
Project Speciﬁc - 4.8The City of San Mateo is implemen:ng a Project Labor Agreement (PLA) on the 
project.  All costs will need to be included for the implementation of this PLA in the subcontractor’s bid 
price.  
their Work. Project specific SWPPP requires Best Management Practices (BMPs) to be in place prior to 
any excavation. BMP coordination is the responsibility of the Subcontractor. Subcontractor shall 
protect all SWPPP BMP installations from damage and repair any damage to BMPs caused by 
Subcontractor’s actions.
Cleanup of work area to be completed daily. Subcontractor is required to maintain a neat and orderly 
work area free of debris. 
Subcontractor will provide auditable quantities of units installed on a weekly basis in a format similar 
to the WBS as shown on the bid breakdown.  Scope progress and payment progress will be based on 
rules of credit developed in conjunction with Sundt upon award of contract.  Upon award 
Subcontractor will provide adequate cost breakdown as required to fill out progress tracking reports.
Bid Breakdown
j
p
y
p
j
y
q
greatest extent possible, “local” labor.  Upon award, the selected Subcontractor for this scope of work 
will provide a local labor hire plan for review and approval.  Local hire plan will demonstrate good faith 
effort and best practices for hiring of local labor.  “Local” is considered to include all localities within 
the 9 bay area counties.
186 of 574

--- page 187 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
12/19/2019
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 0191 - Tower Cranes
$621,954.00
$485,616.80
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
12/13/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
Companies:
Morrow Equipment Co.
Contact Name:
Chris Whittle
Phone:
707-644-3731x0207
Bigge Crane and Rigging Co.
Eric Hibler
510-638-8100
12/13/2019
NDT Certificate
LS
1 Included
1
$0.00
$0.00
Re-Torque Tower Bolts
LS
1
$0.00
$0.00
1
$0.00
$0.00
One-time Charges
Automobile Insurance Additionally Insured
LS
1
$3,800.00
$3,800.00
1
$3,800.00
$3,800.00
Cupertino Electrical Hookup
LS
1
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
1
$5,000.00
$5,000.00
TOTAL CRANE EQUIPMENT COSTS =
$570,600.00
$445,520.00
Taxes
LS
1
$621,954.00
$485,616.80
Operators for Tower Cranes - standard rate (2*40*13 =1,040 MH)
MH
1040
$0.00
$0.00
1040
$0.00
$0.00
Operators for Tower Cranes - OT rate (2*10*13 = 5,200 MH)
MH
260
$0.00
$0.00
260
$0.00
$0.00
TOTAL OPERATOR COSTS =
$0.00
$0.00
187 of 574

--- page 188 ---
Founded in 1916 | 500 People | Innovation | Safety | Technology
Page 1 of 8
ESTABLISHED 1916 • WWW.BIGGE.COM • PH:(510) 638-8100 • 10700 Bigge Ave, San Leandro, CA, USA, 94577
Quote #:Q-00061891
Date:08/14/2018
 Eric Hibler 
SALES REP. :
Email : 
 
ehibler@bigge.com
Phone : (510) 254-1944
 : Q-00061891 
QUOTE#
 : 
 
DATE
08/14/2018
 : 
QUOTE EXPIRATION DATE
CUSTOMER INFORMATION :
Steve Bradford
Sundt Corp
Email: slbradford@sundt.com
 
BILLING ADDRESS :
SUNDT 2620 SOUTH 55TH STREET
TEMPE AZ USA 85282
 
JOB SITE (S) :
2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo,
California, 94404
PROJECT NAME : San Mateo Waste Water Tower Cranes
Bigge Crane and Rigging Co. hereinafter referred to as "LESSOR" is pleased to provide, the following quotation for lease, to
Sundt Corp located at SUNDT 2620 SOUTH 55TH STREET, TEMPE, AZ 85282, USA, hereinafter referred to as "LESSEE".
Description of Work
(2) Comedil CTT 721 Tower Cranes
 
Tower #1 - Lower - Comedil CTT721-40 (1 of 1) 
Crane Configuration
 
 
 
83 '
Initial Height Under Hook : 
83 '
Final Height Under Hook : 
275 '
Jib Length Reach : 
 
 
 
7,496 lb
Capacity at Jib Tip : 
44,092 lb
Maximum Capacity : 
2 part
Trolley Hook : 
Freestanding
Freestanding/Climbed : 
Mast Configuration
 
 
4 No(s)
Total Tower Sections : 
Anchors
Footing Type : 
HD23 26.6
Anchor Type : 
Electrical Requirements
 
 
480 Volts, 3
Electrical Requirement : 
Phase, 60 Cycle
400 Amps
Amperage : 
NA
Transformer Option : 
Billing Terms, Start Date, Minimum Lease Duration & Other Terms
 
 
 
36 Month(s)
Minimum Lease Duration : 
1,200,000
Replacement Value($) : 
200 hrs
Monthly Hours Included : 
 
8/14/2019
Scheduled Start Date : 
120.00
Additional Hours ($) : 
Assist Crane & Crew
 
 
Included
Base Set Crane Pricing : 
40
Max Radius (Ft) : 
Straight Time
Shift : 
 
 
Included
Assembly Crane Pricing : 
80
Max Radius (Ft) : 
Straight Time
Shift : 
 
 
Included
Disassembly Crane Pricing : 
80
Max Radius (Ft) : 
Straight Time
Shift : 
188 of 574

--- page 189 ---
Founded in 1916 | 500 People | Innovation | Safety | Technology
Page 2 of 8
ESTABLISHED 1916 • WWW.BIGGE.COM • PH:(510) 638-8100 • 10700 Bigge Ave, San Leandro, CA, USA, 94577
Quote #:Q-00061891
Date:08/14/2018
Monthly Billing
Item
Charge Type
Notes
Rate
UoM
Tax %
Tax $
Quantity
Total
Bare Rate  
Monthly Rate
$24,000.00
Month
9.00%
$2,160.00
36.00
$941,760.00
Repair Agreement
 
Monthly Rate
$2,000.00
Month
0.00%
$0.00
36.00
$72,000.00
Total Monthly Billing
$1,013,760.00
Assembly Set Up Charges
Item
Charge Type
Notes
Rate
UoM
Tax %
Tax $
Quantity
Total
Engineered
Drawings  
One Time
$3,000.00
0.00%
$0.00
1.00
$3,000.00
Freight On  
One Time
$17,000.00
0.00%
$0.00
1.00
$17,000.00
Anchor Stools  
One Time
$20,000.00
9.00%
$1,800.00
1.00
$21,800.00
Set Anchors  
One Time
$8,000.00
0.00%
$0.00
1.00
$8,000.00
Assembly  
Lump Sum
$80,000.00
0.00%
$0.00
1.00
$80,000.00
3rd Party
Inspection  
One Time
Initial and annual
$8,000.00
Occurrence
0.00%
$0.00
3.00
$24,000.00
OSHA
Certification  
One Time
Initial and every 6
month
$6,500.00
Occurrence
0.00%
$0.00
6.00
$39,000.00
NDT Certificate  
One Time
$3,500.00
0.00%
$0.00
1.00
$3,500.00
Re-Torque Tower
Bolts  
One Time
$4,000.00
Occurance
0.00%
$0.00
2.00
$8,000.00
Total Assembly Set Up Charges
$204,300.00
Dismantle Charges
Item
Charge Type
Notes
Rate
UoM
Tax %
Tax $
Quantity
Total
Disassembly  
Lump Sum
$80,000.00
0.00%
$0.00
1.00
$80,000.00
Freight Off  
One Time
$17,000.00
0.00%
$0.00
1.00
$17,000.00
Total Dismantle Charges
$97,000.00
Total
$1,315,060.00
 
Tower #2 - Taller - Comedil CTT721-40 (1 of 1) 
189 of 574

--- page 190 ---
Founded in 1916 | 500 People | Innovation | Safety | Technology
Page 3 of 8
ESTABLISHED 1916 • WWW.BIGGE.COM • PH:(510) 638-8100 • 10700 Bigge Ave, San Leandro, CA, USA, 94577
Quote #:Q-00061891
Date:08/14/2018
Crane Configuration
 
 
 
103 '
Initial Height Under Hook : 
103 '
Final Height Under Hook : 
275 '
Jib Length Reach : 
 
 
 
7,496 lb
Capacity at Jib Tip : 
44,092 lb
Maximum Capacity : 
2 part
Trolley Hook : 
Freestanding
Freestanding/Climbed : 
Mast Configuration
 
 
5 No(s)
Total Tower Sections : 
Anchors
Footing Type : 
HD23 26.6
Anchor Type : 
Electrical Requirements
 
 
480 Volts, 3
Electrical Requirement : 
Phase, 60 Cycle
400 Amps
Amperage : 
NA
Transformer Option : 
Billing Terms, Start Date, Minimum Lease Duration & Other Terms
 
 
 
36 Month(s)
Minimum Lease Duration : 
1,200,000
Replacement Value($) : 
200 hrs
Monthly Hours Included : 
 
8/14/2019
Scheduled Start Date : 
120.00
Additional Hours ($) : 
Assist Crane & Crew
 
 
Included
Base Set Crane Pricing : 
40
Max Radius (Ft) : 
Straight Time
Shift : 
 
 
Included
Assembly Crane Pricing : 
80
Max Radius (Ft) : 
Straight Time
Shift : 
 
 
Included
Disassembly Crane Pricing : 
80
Max Radius (Ft) : 
Straight Time
Shift : 
Monthly Billing
Item
Charge Type
Notes
Rate
UoM
Tax %
Tax $
Quantity
Total
Bare Rate  
Monthly Rate
$24,000.00
Month
9.00%
$2,160.00
36.00
$941,760.00
Repair Agreement
 
Monthly Rate
$2,000.00
Month
0.00%
$0.00
36.00
$72,000.00
Total Monthly Billing
$1,013,760.00
190 of 574

--- page 191 ---
Founded in 1916 | 500 People | Innovation | Safety | Technology
Page 4 of 8
ESTABLISHED 1916 • WWW.BIGGE.COM • PH:(510) 638-8100 • 10700 Bigge Ave, San Leandro, CA, USA, 94577
Quote #:Q-00061891
Date:08/14/2018
Assembly Set Up Charges
Item
Charge Type
Notes
Rate
UoM
Tax %
Tax $
Quantity
Total
Engineered
Drawings  
One Time
$3,000.00
0.00%
$0.00
1.00
$3,000.00
Freight On  
One Time
$17,000.00
0.00%
$0.00
1.00
$17,000.00
Anchor Stools  
One Time
$20,000.00
9.00%
$1,800.00
1.00
$21,800.00
Set Anchors  
One Time
$8,000.00
0.00%
$0.00
1.00
$8,000.00
Assembly  
Lump Sum
$80,000.00
0.00%
$0.00
1.00
$80,000.00
3rd Party
Inspection  
One Time
Initial and annual
$8,000.00
Occurrence
0.00%
$0.00
3.00
$24,000.00
OSHA
Certification  
One Time
Initial and every 6
month
$6,500.00
Occurrence
0.00%
$0.00
6.00
$39,000.00
NDT Certificate  
One Time
$3,500.00
0.00%
$0.00
1.00
$3,500.00
Re-Torque Tower
Bolts  
One Time
$4,000.00
Occurance
0.00%
$0.00
2.00
$8,000.00
Total Assembly Set Up Charges
$204,300.00
Dismantle Charges
Item
Charge Type
Notes
Rate
UoM
Tax %
Tax $
Quantity
Total
Disassembly  
Lump Sum
$80,000.00
0.00%
$0.00
1.00
$80,000.00
Freight Off  
One Time
$17,000.00
0.00%
$0.00
1.00
$17,000.00
Total Dismantle Charges
$97,000.00
Total
$1,315,060.00
 Operator    
Borrowed Servant -  
Rate  
Straight Time
$115.00
Hour
8 Hour Minimum
Over Time
$145.00
Hour
Double Time
$175.00
Hour
Taxes calculated are for San Mateo, California
Provided by Others
Traffic Control
191 of 574

--- page 192 ---
Founded in 1916 | 500 People | Innovation | Safety | Technology
Page 5 of 8
ESTABLISHED 1916 • WWW.BIGGE.COM • PH:(510) 638-8100 • 10700 Bigge Ave, San Leandro, CA, USA, 94577
Quote #:Q-00061891
Date:08/14/2018
Lane Closure
Flaggers
STANDARD CLARIFICATIONS:
a. Technician and operator are required during erection, climbing and disassembly of tower crane.
b. Any swing and trolley limiting devices (if required) are the LESSEE’s responsibility.
c. Tower Crane Operator Rates are subject to increase $3 per hour as of July 1, 2020 per union agreements.
GENERAL TERMS:
a. The pricing includes sales tax which is subject to change upon future changes in the laws that provide for the sales tax rate
within the applicable tax jurisdiction at the time of the lease, or upon changing the lease to a different piece of a equipment, or
upon sourcing the piece of equipment from a different location.
b. Prior to delivery or release of the Equipment, a Bare Equipment Lease Agreement shall be fully executed on file with
LESSOR.
c. LESSEE shall provide LESSOR a 60 day notice of any termination or extension. Early termination is subject to termination
fees. If after meeting the minimum guaranteed rental period and LESSEE fails to notify LESSOR within 60 days of termination
date, LESSEE shall pay for the full month's rental regardless if the maximum hours have been met.
d. LESSEE agrees to pay a Cancellation Fee equivalent to the minimum lease duration as defined in this Proposal should the
LESSEE cancel this Agreement within one hundred twenty (120) days of the scheduled commencement of the Lease Period.
e. Should LESSEE delay taking delivery within ten (10) business days after the stated delivery date in the Proposal Letter,
LESSOR shall commence rental charges on the stated delivery date or, at its option, LESSOR may terminate this contract
without liability and LESSEE shall be responsible for any reservation costs.
f. Mobilizations do not account for weather related delays such as, but not limited to, wind, rain, or snow. LESSEE will be
responsible for LESSOR's employees show up time per the Union contract.
RATES:
a. Overtime and Double-Time rates shall apply for any work occurring on Saturday, Sunday and standard Bank Holidays.
INVOICING & PAYMENTS:
a. LESSOR's invoice shall be paid at the beginning of each month at a 28 day monthly cycle.
b. All the costs as referenced in the Proposal including, but not limited to, anchors, transportation, installation, certifications and
first months lease for the equipment shall be paid in the first invoice.
c. No retention shall be withheld.
d. Any costs associated with any mandatory billing system as required by LESSEE such as Textura shall be charged to and paid
for by LESSEE.
ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS:
a. The voltage must be free from ripple or noise that is outside the ideal sine waveform and have no spikes or drops that exceed
5%.
REGULATORY INSPECTIONS:
a. Independent third-party and OSHA inspections are not included if not specifically listed in Schedule of Values/Quotation and
shall be billed directly to LESSEE. Inspections require advanced written notification. LESSOR will make a reasonable effort to
schedule OSHA inspections; however, LESSOR is not responsible for any delays due to OSHA scheduling (directly or
indirectly). Anything that is not within LESSOR's control shall not be LESSOR's responsibility.
EQUIPMENT REPAIR AGREEMENT:
192 of 574

--- page 193 ---
Founded in 1916 | 500 People | Innovation | Safety | Technology
Page 6 of 8
ESTABLISHED 1916 • WWW.BIGGE.COM • PH:(510) 638-8100 • 10700 Bigge Ave, San Leandro, CA, USA, 94577
Quote #:Q-00061891
Date:08/14/2018
a. All lightning strike related damages are not covered under the standard repair agreement.
BILLABLE ITEMS:
a. Technical assistance will be provided upon written request by LESSEE during assembly and disassembly of the tower crane
and will be billed per LESSOR's published standard rate sheet. Such rate sheet will be available upon request by LESSEE.
EXCLUDED ITEMS:
a. Price excludes all traffic related costs, including traffic control, barricades, flagmen, street closures, city work permits, or other
traffic related items; any unknown or hidden fees; all power supply work, tower crane pad foundation work and any
engineering of any type; all permits, including tower crane operating permit, any FAA permits temporary occupancy or
electrical permits as may be required.
b. Price excludes costs related to operators, rigging personnel, and signal persons not specifically included in this Proposal.
Pricing for any activities, such as assembly of tower cranes, erection of hoists, jumps of either, and re-torque, does not include
costs for an operator.
c. Price excludes any foundation engineering and wall-tie attachment engineering.
d. Price excludes any required shoring for Equipment, trucks or assist cranes.
e. Price excludes any required swing and trolley limiting devices, either Zoning or Anti-Collision Systems.
f. Price excludes any apparatus, system, and parts that are not specifically listed in this quote, including but not limited to, lifting
accessories, tools, embeds, gates, steel dock and ramp, call boxes, tie-ins, counterweights, test weights, jibs, base anchors.
INSURANCE AND BONDS:
a. LESSEE must provide upon request, satisfactory EQUIPMENT-SPECIFIC insurance in accordance with LESSOR's Bare
Equipment Lease Agreement. LESSOR can provide up to $2 Million of General Liability coverage per occurrence and $4
million per aggregate. If additional limits are required by LESSEE then LESSOR will charge for any increase in coverage
amount.
b. Any bonds required by LESSEE the bonds premium will be charged to the account of LESSEE.
c. In the event LESSOR needs to enroll in any mandatory insurance program required by LESSEE and/or Owner, then all costs,
including but not limited to, administrative and enrollment fees will be charged to and paid for by LESSEE and/or Owner. The
'Insurance' credit shall not exceed the amount of LESSOR's actual cost based on our insurance limits and deductibles. There
will be no credit for any 'Insurance' administrative overhead and profit and/or fees, and no credit for excess liability coverage
[excess liability is not subject to final audit]. Credit will be issued at the completion of LESSOR's scope of work and after a
final reconciliation. If LESSOR is onsite for less than eight (8) hours LESSOR shall be excluded from participating in the
'Insurance' program.
LABOR RATES:
a. Unless mutually agreed, labor rates shall be subject to escalations per Union agreements.
CUSTOMER (LESSEE'S) RESPONSIBILITIES, PRIOR TO ARRIVAL ON SITE:
a. Electrical service with at least the amperage (as mentioned above) fused disconnect service must be installed within ten (10)
feet of the base of each Equipment prior to erection.
b. Provide free and clear access (on ground and in aerial space) with adequate working and storage space for the purposes of
LESSOR's work.
c. Provide LESSOR with firm level soil, all weathered work area capable of supporting the loads imposed by LESSOR's
equipment.
d. Verify that the tower crane may operate and/or weathervane over adjacent property, existing buildings, power lines, streets,
neighboring obstacles, etc.
e. Ensure that structure is ready for erecting, mounting and tying-in of the Equipment.
193 of 574

--- page 194 ---
Founded in 1916 | 500 People | Innovation | Safety | Technology
Page 7 of 8
ESTABLISHED 1916 • WWW.BIGGE.COM • PH:(510) 638-8100 • 10700 Bigge Ave, San Leandro, CA, USA, 94577
Quote #:Q-00061891
Date:08/14/2018
f. Provide and install electrical earth grounding rod for tower crane.
g. Responsible for the installation of the foundations and structural supports in accordance with the stamped and approved
design, prior to equipment erection per OSHA requirements and shall confirm in writing to LESSOR.
h. Responsible for securing the foundation anchors to the tower section and holding them plumb and secure to a tolerance per
manufacturer's specifications vertically while the foundation is being constructed and curing.
i. Responsible for obtaining the operating permit of the tower crane.
TERMINATION FEES:
a. LESSOR reserves the right to charge the remaining guaranteed minimum rental, demobilization, transportation, and
reservation cost should LESSEE elect to terminate for convenience or cancel any rental within 24 hours of dispatching. Lease
rates are subject to change and are based on availability at the time of order acceptance.
TOTAL LIABILITY CAP:
a. LESSOR's total liability shall not exceed 15% of the contract value.
LIMITATION OF LIABILITY:
a. Unless otherwise expressly represented, LESSOR is not the manufacturer of the equipment. LESSOR extends no warranties,
express or implied, of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, design, materials, or otherwise, except as set forth in
this agreement. In no event shall LESSOR or the manufacturer (or its component suppliers) of the equipment be liable for any
delay, work stoppage, loss of use of equipment, loss of time, inconvenience, loss of profit, or any direct, indirect, incidental,
liquidated, special, consequential or punitive damages.
ASSEMBLY AND DISASSEMBLY SERVICE:
a. The use of a qualified Technician and/or Operator is required during assembly, climbing, operating, and disassembly of the
Equipment.
b. LESSEE may elect to add an Assembly and Disassembly Service under an Addendum covering the assembly, jumps and
disassembly of the tower crane, including parts and technician labor (operator not included), at an additional cost.
c. LESSEE will provide a 30 day notice prior to any assembly, jump or disassembly if dates are yet not established.
d. LESSEE will assume responsibility for all stand-by time exceeding one (1) hour created by inclement weather, labor strikes, or
jobsite condition, even if beyond LESSEE's control.
e. Under no circumstances shall LESSOR be liable for the cost of any downtime or delays in delivery, delays in installation,
testing or for consequential damages for the failure of any parts or Equipment to operate.
f. The assist crane, all Equipment parts and other items will be given free and clear access at all times. All assembly and
disassembly pricing based on maximum assist crane working radius as stated in the Schedule of Values/Quotation.
g. Where assembly and/or disassembly charges include an assist crane, the assist crane can be operated at full load chart
specifications unless otherwise agreed to by the parties. Any request to limit crane operation to less than full load chart may
require a substitute larger crane. Any additional costs from such substitution will be charged to customer as an extra
LESSOR’s proposal and pricing are contingent on providing a maximum of $2 Million General Liability, $4 Million Aggregate. A
request for higher limits not included in a bid specification or advice provided prior to our bid will be subject to an increase in our
pricing.
194 of 574

--- page 195 ---
Founded in 1916 | 500 People | Innovation | Safety | Technology
Page 8 of 8
ESTABLISHED 1916 • WWW.BIGGE.COM • PH:(510) 638-8100 • 10700 Bigge Ave, San Leandro, CA, USA, 94577
Quote #:Q-00061891
Date:08/14/2018
 the Bigge Crane and Rigging Co. (“Bigge”) standard terms and conditions, 
 (together, the “Referenced
Please read
and your quote-specific terms, conditions and clarifications
Terms”) at this link: 
. A copy will be provided upon request. THE REFERENCED TERMS ARE INCORPORATED HEREIN BY THIS REFERENCE AND MADE A
Terms & Conditions
PART HEREOF, AND WILL BE INCORPORATED IN AND MADE A PART OF THE TOWER/HOIST RENTAL AGREEMENT. The Referenced Terms, together with the equipment
description and pricing set forth above and/or in the Rental Agreement, shall be the SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE writing governing any equipment lease or performance described herein.
Any different or additional terms that may be contained in customer’s document are hereby REJECTED in their entirety. Start of services or acceptance of delivery of equipment shall be
deemed acceptance of the Reference Terms. Performance or Partial Performance by Bigge shall not be deemed an acceptance of any customer’s terms.
BIGGE CRANE AND RIGGING CO.
SIGNATURE
NAME (PRINT)
DATE
TITLE
SUNDT CORP
SIGNATURE
NAME (PRINT)
DATE
TITLE
195 of 574

--- page 196 ---
Flat top
Tower crane
CTT 721-40 HD23
Specifications:
Max jib length:	
275.6 ft
Capacity at max length:	
7,496 lbs
Max capacity:	
88,185 lbs
196 of 574

--- page 197 ---
2
Key 
Zeichenerklärung · Légende · Leyenda · Legenda
FEM
Hoisting · Heben · Levage · Elevación · Sollevamento
Trolleying · Katzfahren · Distribution · Distribución · Traslazione carrello
Slewing · Schwenken ·Orientation · Orientació · Rotazione
Travelling · Schienenfahren · Translation · Traslación · Traslazione
Directive on noise level · Richtlinie für den Schall-Leistungspegel · Directive sur le niveau acoustique · Directiva sobre el nivel acustico · 
Direttiva sul livello acustico
Consult us · Auf Anfrage · Nous consulter · Consultarnos · Consultateci
Power requirements · Geforderte Stromstärke · Puissance totale nécessaire · Potencia necesaria · Potenza totale richiesta
Power supply · Stromversorgung · Alimentation · Alimentación · Alimentazione
In service · In Betrieb · En service · En servicio · In servizio
Out of service · Außer Betrieb · Hors service · Fuera de servicio · Fuori servizio
H
Max. under hook height · Höchste Hakenhöhe · Hauteur maxi. sous crochet · Maxima altura bajo gancho · Altezza max. sotto 
gancio
Without load, without ballast, max. jib and max. height · Ohne Last und Ballast, mit Maximalausleger und Maximalhöhe · A vide, 
sans lest, avec flèche et hauteur maximum · Sin carga, sin lastre, con pluma y altura máxima · A vuoto, senza zavorra, braccio 
max., altezza max.
Counterweight · Gegengewicht · Lest de contre-flèche · Lastre de contra flecha · Zavorra controbraccio
C25
FEM 1004 Out of service wind condition · FEM 1004 Windverhältnisse im Außerbetriebszustand · FEM 1004 Conditions de vent 
hors service · FEM 1004 Condiciones de viento fuera de servicio · FEM 1004 Condizioni del vento in fuori servizio
197 of 574

--- page 198 ---
3
Load Diagram • Lastkurven • Courbes de charges • Curvas de cargas • Diagramma di portata  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . 4
Tower • Turm • Tour • Torre • Torre .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Other configurations • Aufstellmöglichkeiten • Autres Implantations 
Otras Implantaciones • Altre Installazioni  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Mechanisms • Antriebe • Mécanismes • Mecanismos • Meccanismi .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Transportation • Transport • Transportation • Transportation • Trasporto .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
CTT 721-40 HD23
Contents 
Inhalt · Contenu · Contenido · Indice
Page · Seite · Page · Pàgina · Pagina:
198 of 574

--- page 199 ---
4
275.6 ft
3,20 m
2,50 m
11.5 ft
2,50 m
27,90 m
86,50 m
88,185 lbs
36.4 ft
88,185 lbs
41.7 ft
88,185 lbs
45.6 ft
88,185 lbs
49.2 ft
259.2 ft
9,480 lbs - 10,582 lbs
242.8 ft
12,346 lbs - 13,448 lbs
226.4 ft
15,432 lbs - 16,535 lbs
Load Diagram 
Lastkurven · Courbes de charges · Curvas de cargas · Diagramma di portata
14.8 ft
8.5 ft
62.3 ft
78.7 ft 95.1 ft 111.6 ft 128 ft 144.4 ft 160.8 ft 177.2 ft 193.6 ft 210 ft 226.4 ft 242.8 ft 259.2 ft 275.6 ft
44,092 lbs
70.5 ft
lbs 44,092 39,022 31,416 26,037 22,046 18,960 16,513 14,506 12,831 11,442 10,229 9,193
8,289
7,496
44,092 lbs
68.6 ft
lbs 44,092 37,655 30,093 24,780 20,812 17,747 15,322 13,338 11,685 10,296 9,105
8,091
7,187
6,393
88,185 lbs
36.4 ft
lbs 49,163 37,655 30,093 24,780 20,812 17,747 15,322 13,338 11,685 10,296 9,105
8,091
7,187
6,393
62.3 ft
78.7 ft 95.1 ft 111.6 ft 128 ft 144.4 ft 160.8 ft 177.2 ft 193.6 ft 210 ft 226.4 ft 242.8 ft 259.2 ft
44,092 lbs
81 ft
lbs 44,092 44,092 36,883 30,777 26,235 22,708 19,930 17,637 15,763 14,154 12,787 11,618 10,582
44,092 lbs
78.7 ft
lbs 44,092 44,092 35,583 29,520 25,022 21,517 18,761 16,491 14,617 13,029 11,685 10,494 9,480
88,185 lbs
41.7 ft
lbs 57,298 44,181 35,583 29,520 25,022 21,517 18,761 16,491 14,617 13,029 11,685 10,494 9,480
62.3 ft
78.7 ft 95.1 ft 111.6 ft 128 ft 144.4 ft 160.8 ft 177.2 ft 193.6 ft 210 ft 226.4 ft 242.8 ft
44,092 lbs
88.9 ft
lbs 44,092 44,092 40,874 34,260 29,321 25,507 22,465 19,996 17,946 16,204 14,727 13,448
44,092 lbs
86.6 ft
lbs 44,092 44,092 39,617 33,025 28,109 24,317 21,319 18,850 16,821 15,102 13,625 12,346
88,185 lbs
45.6 ft
lbs 63,207 48,943 39,617 33,025 28,109 24,317 21,319 18,850 16,821 15,102 13,625 12,346
62.3 ft
78.7 ft 95.1 ft 111.6 ft 128 ft 144.4 ft 160.8 ft 177.2 ft 193.6 ft 210 ft 226.4 ft
44,092 lbs
96.1 ft
lbs 44,092 44,092 44,092 37,457 32,165 28,087 24,824 22,179 19,974 18,122 16,535
44,092 lbs
93.5 ft
lbs 44,092 44,092 43,321 36,244 30,975 26,918 23,678 21,054 18,850 17,020 15,432
88,185 lbs
49.2 ft
lbs 68,630 53,330 43,321 36,244 30,975 26,918 23,678 21,054 18,850 17,020 15,432
D2 (11,685 lbs) A1 (7,871 lbs)
94 AFC 200
3
5
D2 (11,685 lbs) A1 (7,871 lbs)
94 AFC 200
3
5
D2 (11,685 lbs) A1 (7,871 lbs)
94 AFC 200
3
5
D2 (11,685 lbs) A1 (7,871 lbs)
94 AFC 200
5
3
6,393 lbs - 7,496 lbs
21
20
19
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
22
19
21
20
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
22
19
21
20
9
8
7
6
5
4
22
19
21
20
8
7
6
5
4
22
199 of 574

--- page 200 ---
5
88,185 lbs
55.1 ft
88,185 lbs
56.8 ft
210 ft
19,842 lbs - 20,723 lbs
22,708 lbs - 23,810 lbs
193.6 ft
62.3 ft
78.7 ft 95.1 ft 111.6 ft 128 ft 144.4 ft 160.8 ft 177.2 ft 193.6 ft 210 ft
44,092 lbs
107 ft
lbs 44,092 44,092 44,092 42,152 36,288 31,769 28,153 25,221 22,774 20,723
44,092 lbs
105.3 ft
lbs 44,092 44,092 44,092 41,381 35,494 30,931 27,315 24,361 21,914 19,842
88,185 lbs
55.1 ft
lbs 77,647 60,517 49,295 41,381 35,494 30,931 27,315 24,361 21,914 19,842
62.3 ft
78.7 ft 95.1 ft 111.6 ft 128 ft 144.4 ft 160.8 ft 177.2 ft 193.6 ft
44,092 lbs
111.2 ft
lbs 44,092 44,092 44,092 43,938 37,853 33,135 29,388 26,345 23,810
44,092 lbs
108.6 ft
lbs 44,092 44,092 44,092 42,770 36,685 32,011 28,263 25,243 22,708
88,185 lbs
56.8 ft
lbs 80,116 62,479 50,927 42,770 36,685 32,011 28,263 25,243 22,708
62.3 ft
78.7 ft 95.1 ft 111.6 ft 128 ft 144.4 ft 160.8 ft
44,092 lbs
114.5 ft
lbs 44,092 44,092 44,092 44,092 39,132 34,282 30,424
44,092 lbs
111.9 ft
lbs 44,092 44,092 44,092 44,092 38,008 33,180 29,321
88,185 lbs
58.7 ft
lbs 82,828 64,618 52,690 44,269 38,008 33,180 29,321
62.3 ft
78.7 ft 95.1 ft 111.6 ft 128 ft
44,092 lbs
115.5 ft
lbs 44,092 44,092 44,092 44,092 39,463
44,092 lbs
112.9 ft
lbs 44,092 44,092 44,092 44,092 38,360
88,185 lbs
59.1 ft
lbs 83,533 65,191 53,153 44,666 38,360
D2 (11,685 lbs) A1 (7,871 lbs)
94 AFC 200
5
3
D2 (11,685 lbs) A1 (7,871 lbs)
94 AFC 200
1
7
D2 (11,685 lbs) A1 (7,871 lbs)
94 AFC 200
1
6
D2 (11,685 lbs) A1 (7,871 lbs)
94 AFC 200
0
6
88,185 lbs
58.7 ft
160.8 ft
29,321 lbs - 30,424 lbs
88,185 lbs
59.1 ft
128 ft
38,360 lbs - 39,463 lbs
19
21
20
7
6
5
4
22
19
21
20
22
5
4
6
19
21
20
5
4
22
19
21
20
4
22
CTT 721-40 HD23
200 of 574

--- page 201 ---
6
234.9 ft
(C25)
234.9 ft
(C25)
240.8 ft
(C25)
Standard Configurations · Standardkonfiguration ·
Standard Implantations · Implantaciones Standard · Installazioni Standard
Tower 
Turm · Tour · Torre · Torre
116.8 ft
116.8 ft
103 ft
57.7 ft
57.7 ft
44 ft
77.4 ft
77.4 ft
63.7 ft
136.5 ft
136.5 ft
122.7 ft
97.1 ft
97.1 ft
83.3 ft
156.2 ft
156.2 ft
142.4 ft
175.9 ft
175.9 ft
162.1 ft
195.5 ft
195.5 ft
181.8 ft
215.2 ft
215.2 ft
201.5 ft
221.1 ft
No. 11 HD23 26.6
No. 11 HD23 26.6
No. 12 HD23 26.6
7.6 ft
7.6 ft
7.6 ft
R1
R2
1
1
1
2
2
2
3
3
3
4
4
4
5
5
5
6
6
6
7
7
7
8
8
8
9
9
9
10
10
10
11
11
11
12
R1
R2
19.7 ft
19.7 ft
19.7 ft
Tower: HD23 & Basement: R2
R1
-3743 kN
-5255 kN
R2
2510 kN
4316 kN
1540,65 kN
Tower: HD23 & Basement: T6
R1
-1684 kN
-1823 kN
R2
-406 kN
-190 kN
1735 kN
Tower: HD23 & Basement: FP6
R1
-1598 kN
-1823 kN
R2
-344 kN
-120 kN
1735 kN
Max. under hook height • Höchste Haken­höhe • Hauteur maxi. sous crochet • Maxima altura bajo gancho • Altezza max. sotto gancio
Different heights and tower combinations are available; please consult us • Andere Höhen und Turmkombinationen auf Anfrage • Différentes 
hauteurs et combinaisons de tour sont disponibles; nous consulter • Hay diferentes alturas y combinaciones de torre disponibles. Consúlte-
nos • Altezze diverse e combinazioni di torre sono disponibili; consultateci
32.8 ft
32.8 ft
40 ft
R1
R2
201 of 574

--- page 202 ---
7
Other configurations · Aufstellmöglichkeiten ·
Autres Implantations · Otras Implantaciones · Altre Installazioni
Bottom climbing crane · Kletterkran im Gebäude · Télescopage sur 
dalles · Telescopage grúa trepadora ·  Gru climbing
Crane tied to the structure · Geankerter Kran · Grue ancrée · 
Grúa anclada · Gru ancorata
H
C
B
A
C
CTT 721-40 HD23
Tower: HD23-26
min
max
A
137.8 ft 
196.9 ft
B
98.4 ft
118.1 ft
C
118.1 ft
Tower: HD23-26
C min
H max
45.9 ft 
157.5 ft
52.5 ft
177.2 ft
59.1 ft
196.9 ft
68.9 ft
216.5 ft
202 of 574

--- page 203 ---
8
94 AFC 200 D2
200 kVA*
400V - 50Hz / 460V - 60Hz
2000/14/CE modificata
lbs
ft/min
kW
94 AFC 200 D2
(Vector 2)
44,092
0 
 68.9
1°
94
1,568.3 ft
16,535
0 
 170.6
14,110
0 
 190.3
2°
4,409
0 
 479
88,185
0 
 36.1
1°
33,069
0 
 85.3
28,219
0 
 95.1
2°
8,818
0 
 239.5
* Crane without travelling equipment – Three movements simultaneous at 90% · Krane ohne Schienenfahren – Drei gleichzeitige Bewegungen 
mit 90% · Grue sans translation – Trois mouvements simultanés à 90% · Grúa sin traslación – Tres movimientos contemporáneos hechos al 
90% · Gru senza traslazione – Tre movimenti contemporanei al 90% 
Power supply · Stromversorgung ·
Alimentation · Suministro eléctrico · Alimentazione 
Hoisting · Heben · Levage · Elevación · Sollevamento 
Load (lbs):
Speed (ft/min):
13,230
17,640
24,255
26,460
30,870
35,280
39,690
44,100
48,510
4,410
8,820
0
328.1
393.7
459.3
525
196.9
262.5
131.2
65.6
0
DVF 5 15 D1
0 
 288.7 ft/min
15 kW
SCC 2 2 132 P
0.67 r.p.m.
2 x 18 kW
TSR 4RG 4M8
39.4 
 78.7 ft/min (50 Hz)
45.9 
 91.9 ft/min (60 Hz)
4 x 59 ft·lb
TVF 4RT 4M9
0 
 68.9 ft/min
4 x 9 kW
Tower height max.
T6
TSR 4RG 4M8
175.9 ft
 TVF 4RT 4M9
>175.9 ft
Hoisting Speed · Heben Geschwindigkeit · Vitesse de Levage ·  
Velocidad de Elevación · Velocità' di Sollevamento
Gear 1
Gear 2
MECHANISMS 
Antriebe · Mécanismes · Mecanismos · Meccanismi
94 AFC 200
Additional Specifications · Weitere Leistungsdaten ·  
Spécifications additionnelles · Otras prestaciones · Altre movimentazioni
203 of 574

--- page 204 ---
9
CTT 721 -40 HD23
Description · BESCHREIBUNG · DESCRIPTION · 
DESCRIPCIÓN · DESCRIZIONE
LENGTH · LÄNGE 
· LONGUEUR 
· LONGITUD · 
LUNGHEZZA
WIDTH · BREITE 
· LARGEUR · 
ANCHURA · 
LARGHEZZA
HEIGHT · HÖHE 
· HAUTEUR 
· ALTURA · 
ALTEZZA
QUANTITY · 
MENGE · QUANTITÉ 
· CANTIDAD · 
QUANTITÀ
WEIGHT · 
GEWICHT · 
POIDS · PESO · 
PESO
8×8 m UNDERCARRIAGE
STRUT MOUNTING TOWER SECTION
9.5 ft
9.5 ft
9.5 ft
1
20,176 lbs
8×8 m 
UNDERCARRIAGE STRUT
14.1 ft
1 ft
7.4 ft
4
4,013 lbs
8×8 m
UNDERCARRIAGE INTERNAL BEAM
13.1 ft
0.5 ft
1.1 ft
4
463 lbs
8×8 m
UNDERCARRIAGE EXTERNAL BEAM
19.6 ft
1 ft
1.1 ft
4
1,380 lbs
10×10 m UNDERCARRIAGE STRUT 
MOUNTING 
TOWER SECTION
9.8 ft
9.8 ft
10.2 ft
1
23,042 lbs
10×10 m LEFT + RIGHT 
UNDERCARRIAGE STRUT
18.7 ft
8.5 ft
2.3 ft
2 left +
2 right
8,434 lbs
CROSSBEAM FOR TRAVELLING
10×10 m
UNDERCARRIAGE
23 ft
7.2 ft
1.3 ft
2
4,476 lbs
10×10 m UNDERCARRIAGE ELECTRI-
CAL BOX SUPPORT PLATFORM FOR 
TVF 4RT 4M9 
TRAVELLING DRIVE UNIT
18.7 ft
7.2 ft
7.9 ft
1
2,867 lbs
10×10 m UNDERCARRIAGE ELECTRI-
CAL BOX SUPPORT PLATFORM FOR 
TSR 4RG 4M8
TRAVELLING DRIVE UNIT
18.4 ft
6.9 ft
12.1 ft
1
1,422 lbs
TOWER SECTION
HD23 26.6
19.7 ft
8 ft
7.6 ft
1
14,273 lbs*
TOWER SECTION
HD23 22.6
19.7 ft
7.5 ft
7.5 ft
1
10,635 lbs*
TOWER SECTION
HD23 22.3
9.8 ft
7.5 ft
7.5 ft
1
5,623 lbs*
SLEWING UNIT
8.2 ft
9.8 ft
8.8 ft
1
34,178 lbs
*	
inclusive of ladders, platforms and assembly equipment
**	
inclusive of tie-bars and safety rails
***	 inclusive of trolley winch and accessories
****	ballast plates not included
CTT 721-40 HD23
Packing list
Transportation 
Transport · Transport · Conducción · Trasporto
204 of 574

--- page 205 ---
10
CTT 721 -40 HD23
Description · BESCHREIBUNG · DESCRIPTION · 
DESCRIPCIÓN · DESCRIZIONE
LENGTH · LÄNGE 
· LONGUEUR 
· LONGITUD · 
LUNGHEZZA
WIDTH · BREITE 
· LARGEUR · 
ANCHURA · 
LARGHEZZA
HEIGHT · HÖHE 
· HAUTEUR 
· ALTURA · 
ALTEZZA
QUANTITY · 
MENGE · QUANTITÉ 
· CANTIDAD · 
QUANTITÀ
WEIGHT · 
GEWICHT · 
POIDS · PESO · 
PESO
CAB SUPPORT
PLATFORM
18,2 ft
6,1 ft
8,8 ft
1
4,410 lbs
CAB TOWER SECTION
8,4 ft
7,1 ft
10,8 ft
1
8,379 lbs
COUNTERJIB
“1B”
23,5 ft
2,9 ft
6,1 ft
1
9,482 lbs**
COUNTERJIB
”3B”
38,3 ft
3,6 ft
7 ft
1
13,010 lbs**
JIB SECTION-19
19TT19 25.12
39,4 ft
8,3 ft
6.1 ft
1
27,563 lbs***
JIB SECTION-20
20TT19 25.12
33,7 ft
8,4 ft
6,1 ft
1
14,553 lbs
JIB SECTION-21
21TT19 23.10
33,8 ft
6,1 ft
8,3 ft
1
10,805 lbs
JIB SECTION-22
22TT19 23.10
33,9 ft
6,1 ft
8,2 ft
1
8,820 lbs
JIB SECTION-04
TT19 23.05
16,4 ft
6,1 ft
8,2 ft
1
3,969 lbs
JIB SECTION-05
TT19 23.10
32,8 ft
6,1 ft
8,2 ft
1
5,954 lbs
JIB SECTION-06
TT19 20.10
33,8 ft
6,1 ft
7,2 ft
1
4,256 lbs
JIB SECTION-07
TT1920.05
17,3 ft
6,1 ft
7,2 ft
1
1,985 lbs
JIB SECTION-08
TT1917.05
17,2 ft
6,1 ft
6,1 ft
1
1,720 lbs
JIB SECTION-09
TT1917.05
17,1 ft
6,1 ft
6,1 ft
1
2,073 lbs
*	
inclusive of ladders, platforms and assembly equipment
**	
inclusive of tie-bars and safety rails
***	 inclusive of trolley winch and accessories
****	ballast plates not included
Transportation 
Transport · Transport · Conducción · Trasporto
205 of 574

--- page 206 ---
11
CTT 721 -40 HD23
Description · BESCHREIBUNG · DESCRIPTION · 
DESCRIPCIÓN · DESCRIZIONE
LENGTH · LÄNGE 
· LONGUEUR 
· LONGITUD · 
LUNGHEZZA
WIDTH · BREITE 
· LARGEUR · 
ANCHURA · 
LARGHEZZA
HEIGHT · HÖHE 
· HAUTEUR 
· ALTURA · 
ALTEZZA
QUANTITY · 
MENGE · QUANTITÉ 
· CANTIDAD · 
QUANTITÀ
WEIGHT · 
GEWICHT · 
POIDS · PESO · 
PESO
JIB SECTION-10
TT1917.05
17 ft
6.1 ft
6.1 ft
1
1,147 lbs
JIB SECTION-11
TT1917.05
16.9 ft
6.1 ft
6.1 ft
1
997 lbs
JIB POINT
7 ft
4.1 ft
5.2 ft
1
783 lbs
JIB TROLLEY 32-40 t
8.5 ft
7.5 ft
5.1 ft
1
1,985 lbs
4-PART LINE
HOIST BLOCK
32 t
5.9 ft
2.3 ft
6.6 ft
1
2,503 lbs****
HOIST WINCH 94 AFC 200 D2
(VECTOR 2) (without rope)
15 ft
8.4 ft
8.2 ft
1
15,986 lbs
Notes · Notizen · Note · Apunte · Appunti
CTT 721-40 HD23
206 of 574

--- page 207 ---
www.terexcranes.com
Effective Date: June 2010.
Product specifications and prices are subject to change without notice or obligation. The photographs and/or drawings in this document are for illustra-
tive purposes only. Refer to the appropriate Operator’s Manual for instructions on the proper use of this equipment. Failure to follow the appropriate 
Operator’s Manual when using our equipment or to otherwise act irresponsibly may result in serious injury or death. The only warranty applicable to our 
equipment is the standard written warranty applicable to the particular product and sale and Terex makes no other warranty, express or implied. Prod-
ucts and services listed may be trademarks, service marks or trade-names of Terex Corporation and/or its subsidiaries in the USA and other countries. 
All rights are reserved. Terex® is a registered trademark of Terex Corporation in the USA and many other countries.
Gültig ab: Juni 2010.
Produktbeschreibungen und Preise können jederzeit und ohne Verpflichtung zur Ankündigung geändert werden. Die in diesem Dokument enthaltenen 
Fotos und/oder Zeichnungen dienen rein anschaulichen Zwecken. Anweisungen zur ordnungsgemäßen Verwendung dieser Ausrüstung entnehmen Sie 
bitte dem zugehörigen Betriebshandbuch. Nichtbefolgung des Betriebshandbuchs bei der Verwendung unserer Produkte oder anderweitig fahrlässiges 
Verhalten kann zu schwerwiegenden Verletzungen oder Tod führen. Für dieses Produkt wird ausschließlich die entsprechende, schriftlich niedergelegte 
Standardgarantie gewährt. Terex leistet keinerlei darüber hinaus gehende Garantie, weder ausdrücklich noch stillschweigend. Die Bezeichnungen der 
aufgeführten Produkte und Leistungen sind gegebenenfalls Marken, Servicemarken oder Handelsnamen der Terex Corporation und/oder ihrer Tochter-
gesellschaften in den USA und anderen Ländern. Alle Rechte vorbehalten. „TEREX“ ist eine eingetragene Marke der Terex Corporation in den USA und 
vielen anderen Ländern.
Date d’effet : Juin 2010.
Les spécifications et prix des produits sont sujets à modification sans avis ou obligation. Les photographies et/ou dessins contenus dans ce docu-
ments sont uniquement pour illustration. Veuillez vous référer à la notice d’utilisation appropriée pour les instructions quant à l’utilisation correcte de cet 
équipement. Tout manquement au suivi de la notice d’utilisation appropriée lors de l’utilisation de notre équipement ou tout acte autrement irrespon-
sable peut résulter en blessure corporelle sérieuse ou mortelle La seule garantie applicable à notre équipement est la garantie standard écrite appli-
cable à un produit et à une vente spécifique. Terex n’offre aucune autre garantie, expresse ou explicite. Les produis et services proposés peuvent être 
des marques de fabrique, des marques de service ou des appellations commerciales de Terex Corporation et/ou ses filiales aux Etats Unis et dans les 
autres pays, et tous les droits sont réservés. «TEREX» est une marque déposée de Terex Corporation aux Etats Unis et dans de nombreux autres pays.
Fecha efectiva: Junio 2010.
Los precios y las especificaciones de productos pueden sufrir cambios sin aviso previo u obligación. Las fotografías o dibujos de este documento 
tienen un fin meramente ilustrativo. Consulte el manual de instrucciones del operador correspondiente para más información sobre el uso correcto de 
este equipo. El hecho de no respetar el manual del operador correspondiente al utilizar el equipo o actuar de forma irresponsable puede suponer lesio-
nes graves o fatales. La única garantía aplicable a nuestro equipo es la garantía escrita estándar correspondiente a cada producto y venta, y TEREX 
no amplía dicha garantía de forma expresa o implícita. Los productos y servicios mencionados pueden ser marcas registradas, marcas de servicio o 
nombres de marca de TEREX Corporation o de sus filiales en Estados Unidos de América y otros países, y se reservan todos los derechos. „TEREX“ 
es una marca comercial registrada de Terex Corporation en Estados Unidos de América y muchos otros países.
Data di inizio validità: Giugno 2010.
Ci riserviamo il diritto di modificare le specifiche e i prezzi dei prodotti in ogni momento e senza preavviso. Le fotografie e/o i disegni contenuti in 
questo documento sono destinati unicamente a scopi illustrativi. Consultare le istruzioni sull’uso corretto di questo macchinario, contenute nell'oppor-
tuno Manuale dell’operatore. L’inottemperanza delle istruzioni contenute nel Manuale dell’operatore del macchinario e altri comportamenti irresponsabili 
possono provocare gravi lesioni, anche mortali. L’unica garanzia applicabile ai nostri macchinari è la garanzia scritta standard applicabile al particolare 
prodotto e alla particolare vendita; Terex è esonerata dal fornire qualsiasi altra garanzia, esplicita o implicita. I prodotti e servizi elencati possono essere 
dei marchi di fabbrica, marchi di servizio o nomi commerciali di TEREX Corporation e/o società affiliate negli Stati Uniti d’America e altre nazioni e tutti i 
diritti sono riservati. „TEREX“ è un marchio registrato di Terex Corporation negli USA e molti altri Paesi.
Copyright 2010 Terex Corporation
Terex Cranes, Global Marketing, Dinglerstraße 24, 66482 Zweibrücken, Germany
Tel. +49 (0) 6332 830, Email: info.cranes@terex.com, www.terexcranes.com
Brochure Reference: TC-DS-IMP-E/F/G/I/S-CTT721-40 HD23-06/10
207 of 574

--- page 208 ---
DETROIT   DR
JOINVILLE  ROAD
JOINVILLE  ROAD
DETROIT   DR
N 2035231.07
E 6041131.24
N 2034835.83
E 6041290.64
NEW STRUCTURE FOOTING PLAN
SOIL STABILIZED AREAS
 
C221
24
D. MURBACH
3/18
P. VAN MEURS
3/18
-
-
AS NOTED
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
OUTLINE OF STRUCTURAL
FOOTING, ELEVATIONS AS
NOTED BY HATCH PATTERN
(TYP)
SOIL TREATMENT OUTLINE,
4' FROM FOOTING OUTLINE
(TYP), SEE NOTE 1
OUTLINE OF STRUCTURAL FOOTING
ABOVE (TYP FOR THIN, DASHED LINE)
SEE SHEET C222 FOR UPPER LAYOUT
NOTES:
1. STRUCTURAL SOIL STABILIZATION SECTION
WILL EXTEND 5.5' MINIMUM FROM UNDERSIDE
OF SLAB UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE
BELOW. UNCONFINED COMPRESSIVE
STRENGTH SHALL BE 170 PSI.  SEE
EARTHWORK SPECIFICATION FOR
STRUCTURAL SOIL STABILIZATION SECTION
SUBMITTAL AND TESTING REQUIREMENTS
2. TEST PILE TO BE CUT AT THE BOTTOM OF
EXCAVATION AND DISPOSED OF.
3. DEEPEN EXCAVATION FOR 150 LF (BROKEN
INTO THREE LOCATIONS) FOR THICKENED
SLAB AND DEEPENED SOIL STABILIZATION
PER DETAIL 3/C502 FOR TRENCH SECTIONS
INSTALLED ALONG PILE LINES. ACTUAL
LOCATION OF SECTION 3/C502 INSTALLATION
TO BE RELEASED VIA SUBSEQUENT
ADDENDUM.
4. DEEPEN EXCAVATION FOR 200 LF (BROKEN
INTO TWO LOCATIONS) FOR THICKENED SLAB
AND DEEPENED SOIL STABILIZATION PER
DETAIL 4/C502 FOR TRENCH SECTIONS
INSTALLED NOT ALONG PILE LINES. ACTUAL
LOCATION OF SECTION 4/C502 INSTALLATION
TO BE RELEASED VIA SUBSEQUENT
ADDENDUM.
NEW STRUCTURE PLAN
1" = 30'
FFE 83.0 W/ 2'-6" THK SLAB;
STRUCTURAL SOIL
STABILIZATION SECTION
MAY BE OMITTED.
FFE 90.0 W/ 2'-6" SLAB
WITH SOIL STABILIZATION
PER NOTE 1
FFE 90.0 W/ 2'-0" SLAB
WITH SOIL STABILIZATION
PER NOTE 1
LEGEND:
MONITORING WELL
TEST PILE LOCATION
P-1
P-4
MONITORING
WELL OW-01
MONITORING
WELL OW-03
P-2
P-3
P-5
MONITORING
WELL OW-02
P-7
P-6
P-8
PRELIMINARY
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
OR
RECORDING
DESIGNED BY:
DRAWN BY:
QC CHKD BY:
PROJECT No:
SCALE:
SUBMITTAL:
DATE:
DATE:
DATE:
10048652
REV. NO.
DESCRIPTION
BY
DATE
San Mateo WWTP Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow
Management Upgrade and Expansion Project
City Project GMP-1 No. 46T003
SHEET NO.
SHEET
57
OF
C:\pwworking\west01\d0612352\C221.dwg
3/29/2019 10:33 AM VanMeurs, Peter
100% SUBMITTAL
A
3/26/19
OUTLINE OF STRUCTURAL FOOTING
ABOVE (TYP FOR THIN, DASHED LINE)
SEE SHEET C222 FOR UPPER LAYOUT
FFE 86.0 W/ 2'-6" SLAB;
STRUCTURAL SOIL
STABILIZATION SECTION
MAY BE OMITTED.
SEE NOTE 2
SEE NOTE 2
FFE 101.0 W/ 2'-0" SLAB WITH
SOIL STABILIZATION PER NOTE 1
FFE VARIES FROM 97.0 TO 1010.0
W/ STEPPED 2'-0" SLAB WITH
SOIL STABILIZATION
208 of 574
Tower Crane Plan
Revised Tower Plan

--- page 209 ---
Equipment Lease Quote
AME-12855
Printed 08/28/2019
Page 1 of 2
Quote prepared by: Chris Whittle
Cell (707) 815-6880 • Office (707) 644-3731 
c.whittle@morrow.com
Lessee
Project
Date
Sundt Construction
    San Mateo Waste Water Plant
08/28/2019
Mailing Address
Project Location
Sundt Construction - Industrial Group
San Mateo Waste Water Treatment Plant
2620 South 55th Street
2050 Detroit Drive
Tempe, AZ 858282
San Mateo, CA 94404
Crane #1 (west)
Revision 1
Morrow Equipment Co., LLC, (hereinafter "Lessor") leases to Sundt Construction (hereinafter "Lessee") for use at the project location mentioned above for the
following equipment (hereinafter "equipment"):
Equipment: 630 EC-H 20/40 Litronic
Initial Height: 100'     Final Height: 100'     Radius: 267
One (1) Liebherr model 630 EC-H 20 Litronic Freestanding Tower Crane.
Tower sections for a freestanding hook height of 100 feet.
Jib sections for a working hook radius of 267 feet from center line of tower.
Mac capacity of 44,090 lbs. to a radius of 93 feet from center line of tower, in LM2 Mode.
Tip capacity of 12,790 lbs. at 267 feet from center line of tower.
Morrow can arrange for required Independent Third Party Inspection, $7,000 per job site visit.
Annual post erection NDT inspections, estimated two (2) included in rental rate.
Rental Price:      $28,000.00
Per month, excluding sales, use, personal property taxes, permits, licenses, and fees which are Lessee's responsibility. Lessee shall pay the rental on the
first of each month in advance, without offset or counterclaim at Lessor's office as set forth above. A deposit retained until project completion equal to
two (2) month's rent shall be paid upon acceptance of order.
The rental rate is based on metered usage up to 260 hours cumulative.  Hours over 260 are billable at $77.78 per hour with no reduction for use less
than 260 hours per month based on operated hours. Rent begins on initial shipment of equipment to Lessee but not later than two (2) weeks after
Approximate Delivery Date (unless delay is caused by Lessor's sole fault). Rent shall end upon return of equipment to Lessor's yard in good operating
condition subject to Guaranteed Minimum Rental Period. First and last month's rent calculated on a prorated daily basis. Shipping at Lessee's Cost and
Risk.
Inbound Freight: $18,000.00
Outbound Freight: $14,000.00
Personal Property Tax: $0.00
Approximate Delivery Date 10/01/2020
(14 days advance written notice required)
Foundation Anchors: $16,550.00
Insured Value: $1,511,600.00
Guaranteed Minimum Rental Period: 36 months
Other Items
1. Monthly rental price based on calendar month. Hours of usage to be accumulative for duration of job. Hours used over 260 hours per month 
to be billed at $77.78 per hour, plus tax
2. Lessee to provide foundation according to specifications provided by Morrow.
3. Lessee to provide power (480 volt, 60 cycle, 3 phase, 200 amp) to equipment base, with fused disconnect, prior to commencement of 
erection.
4. Morrow will provide technical assistance during the erection, climbing, retorque, dismantle, third party and OSHA inspections only, for the 
following rate. Standard published rates apply to all other billing.
• $180.00 per hour Monday through Friday, 7:30 am to 4:00 pm
• $210.00 per hour Monday through Friday for hours worked before 7:30 am or after 4:00 pm
• $210.00 per hour on Saturday.
• $240.00 per hour on Sunday and holidays
• Minimum billing for a Service Technician is two (2) hours weekdays, and four (4) hours Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays
• $300.00 plus tax will be billed per site trip (includes mileage, service vehicle, tolls, parking, tools, insurance and travel time for sites within 
a 50 mile radius of Morrow yard.  Trips in excess of 50 miles will be billed at a rate of $1.80 per mile.
• Technician’s time starts and stops at Morrow’s American Canyon, CA facility
209 of 574

--- page 210 ---
5. Repair Agreement Trip Charge:  $300.00 plus tax will be billed per site trip (includes mileage, tolls, parking, tools and insurance - does NOT 
include travel time) for sites within a 50 mile radius of the Morrow yard.  Trips in excess of 50 miles will be billed at a rate of $1.80 per mile. 
Overtime, weekend or Holiday repair work, and delays shall be additionally charged to Customer at standard published rates.
6. Erection, climbing, retorque, dismantle, operation, maintenance, certification and OSHA inspection, insurance and test weights are for 
Lessee’s account.
7. Morrow’s enrollment in an OCIP/CCIP/Wrap Insurance program:  Contractor shall receive from Morrow all credits due for premiums due 
under the terms of the OCIP/CCIP/Wrap programs.  Should the program, however, required Morrow to provide a waiver of subrogation under 
its Workers Compensation insurance for on-site exposures there will be an annual charge of $5,700.00.  Should the program require Morrow to 
provide automobile liability insurance coverage naming the contractor as additional insured and a waiver of subrogation, there will be an 
annual charge of $3,800.00.
8.“Sundt Construction - Industrial Group acknowledges that a portion of the rental represents maintenance and service to the equipment in 
preparation for the project and following its completion unless covered by the Lessee’s Equipment Repair Agreement or where invoiced 
separately.”
All amounts stated in this quote are in US Dollars and exclusive of sale/use tax which are Lessee's responsibility and in accordance with Lessor's
Equipment Lease Agreement terms. This quote is valid for 30 days from its date and subject to location and availability of equipment.
210 of 574

--- page 211 ---
Erect & Dismantle Quote
Subcontract Erector
AME-12855
Printed 08/28/2019
Page 1 of 1
Quote prepared by: Chris Whittle
Cell (707) 815-6880 • Office (707) 644-3731 
c.whittle@morrow.com
Contractor
Project
Date
Sundt Construction
    San Mateo Waste Water Plant
08/28/2019
Mailing Address
Project Location
Sundt Construction - Industrial Group
San Mateo Waste Water Treatment Plant
2620 South 55th Street
2050 Detroit Drive
Tempe, AZ 858282
San Mateo, CA 94404
Crane #1 (west)
Revision 1
This agreement is between Morrow Equipment Co., LLC, (hereinafter "Morrow"), and Sundt Construction (hereinafter "Erector"). Erector agrees to provide
labor, assist crane, equipment, supervision and materials and all other items to erect, retorque (each), climb (each) and dismantle the equipment specified
herein in accordance with the Terms and Conditions attached hereto.
Equipment: 630 EC-H 20/40 Litronic
One (1) Liebherr model 630 EC-H 20 Litronic Freestanding Tower Crane.
Tower sections for a freestanding hook height of 100 feet.
Jib sections for a working hook radius of 267 feet from center line of tower.
Mac capacity of 44,090 lbs. to a radius of 93 feet from center line of tower, in LM2 Mode.
Tip capacity of 12,790 lbs. at 267 feet from center line of tower.
Morrow can arrange for required Independent Third Party Inspection, $7,000 per job site visit.
Annual post erection NDT inspections, estimated two (2) included in rental rate.
Erect:      $82,000.00
Scope: Mobile crane must be able to set up within 90 feet from center line of tower crane.
ReTorque (each):       $3,000.00
Scope: Includes technician on site, excludes both travel expenses and assist crane (if required).
Climb (each):           $0.00
Scope: No climbs required
Dismantle:      $82,000.00
Scope: Mobile crane must be able to set up within 90 feet from center line of tower crane.
All amounts are in US Dollars and are exclusive of sales/use tax which are Erector's responsibility. This quote is valid for 30 days from its date and
subject to location and availability of equipment.
211 of 574

--- page 212 ---
Repair Quote
Parts & Labor
AME-12855
Printed 08/28/2019
Page 1 of 1
Quote prepared by: Chris Whittle
Cell (707) 815-6880 • Office (707) 644-3731 
c.whittle@morrow.com
Lessee
Project
Date
08/28/2019
Sundt Construction
    San Mateo Waste Water Plant
Mailing Address
Project Location
Sundt Construction - Industrial Group
San Mateo Waste Water Treatment Plant
2620 South 55th Street
2050 Detroit Drive
Tempe, AZ 858282
San Mateo, CA 94404
Crane #1 (west)
Revision 1
Equipment: 630 EC-H 20/40 Litronic
Morrow Equipment Co., L.L.C., (hereinafter "Lessor") and Sundt Construction (hereinafter "Lessee") agree that Lessor will provide technician for technical
assistance and equipment parts to repair the above equipment at the above location on the following terms and conditions:
Monthly Charge:       $1,500.00 USD plus tax.
The repair rate is based on metered usage up to 260 hours per month. Hours over 260 are   $5.77 per hour with no reduction for use less than 260
hours per month.
Trip Charge:         $300.00 USD
Includes travel expenses, service vehicle, and tool charges, excludes air fare, per diem, and travel time. Applies to each jobsite visit. Commences upon 
delivery and expires on return of the equipment. This agreement must be exercised prior to delivery.
Term:
This Agreement applies for the duration of the rental period.
Repairs Provided:Lessor will provide a service technician for technical assistance and equipment parts (FOB Lessor warehouse) required to repair 
equipment due to normal wear and tear as requested by Lessee with exceptions set forth below:
Not Covered and are Lessee's Responsibility
1. Maintenance; oil changes; lubrication; all adjustments including limit switches, and inspections including those by OSHA, third party
inspectors and local authorities.
2. Repairs required due to vandalism, accident, neglect, misuse, improper operation or maintenance, unusual physical stress or weather
conditions, fire, flood or Act of God.
3. Overtime, weekend or holiday repair work, and delays which shall be additionally charged to Lessee at standard published rates.
4. Replacement or repair of all wire ropes and electrical cables.
5. Hoisting, and all other items required to perform repairs, labor assistance to Lessor's technician if repair requires more than one person.
Other Items
Repair Agreement Trip Charge:  $300.00 plus tax will be billed per site trip (includes mileage, tolls, parking, tools and 
insurance - does NOT include travel time) for sites within a 50 mile radius of the Morrow yard.  Trips in excess of 50 miles 
will be billed at a rate of $1.80 per mile. Overtime, weekend or Holiday repair work, and delays shall be additionally 
charged to Customer at standard published rates.
All amounts stated are in US Dollars. This quote is attached and made part of Equipment Lease Quote AME-12855 whose terms and conditions apply.
212 of 574

--- page 213 ---
Equipment Lease Quote
AME-12856
Printed 08/28/2019
Page 1 of 2
Quote prepared by: Chris Whittle
Cell (707) 815-6880 • Office (707) 644-3731 
c.whittle@morrow.com
Lessee
Project
Date
Sundt Construction
    San Mateo Waste Water Plant
08/28/2019
Mailing Address
Project Location
Sundt Construction - Industrial Group
San Mateo Waste Water Treatment Plant
2620 South 55th Street
2050 Detroit Drive
Tempe, AZ 858282
San Mateo, CA 94404
Crane #2 (east)
Revision 1
Morrow Equipment Co., LLC, (hereinafter "Lessor") leases to Sundt Construction (hereinafter "Lessee") for use at the project location mentioned above for the
following equipment (hereinafter "equipment"):
Equipment: 630 EC-H 20/40 Litronic
Initial Height: 157'     Final Height: 157'     Radius: 267
One (1) Liebherr model 630 EC-H 20 Litronic Freestanding Tower Crane.
Tower sections for a freestanding hook height of 157 feet.
Jib sections for a working hook radius of 267 feet from center line of tower.
Mac capacity of 44,090 lbs. to a radius of 93 feet from center line of tower, in LM2 Mode.
Tip capacity of 12,790 lbs. at 267 feet from center line of tower.
Morrow can arrange for required Independent Third Party Inspection, $7,000 per job site visit.
Annual post erection NDT inspections, estimated two (2) included in rental rate.
Rental Price:      $28,000.00
Per month, excluding sales, use, personal property taxes, permits, licenses, and fees which are Lessee's responsibility. Lessee shall pay the rental on the
first of each month in advance, without offset or counterclaim at Lessor's office as set forth above. A deposit retained until project completion equal to
two (2) month's rent shall be paid upon acceptance of order.
The rental rate is based on metered usage up to 260 hours cumulative.  Hours over 260 are billable at $77.78 per hour with no reduction for use less
than 260 hours per month based on operated hours. Rent begins on initial shipment of equipment to Lessee but not later than two (2) weeks after
Approximate Delivery Date (unless delay is caused by Lessor's sole fault). Rent shall end upon return of equipment to Lessor's yard in good operating
condition subject to Guaranteed Minimum Rental Period. First and last month's rent calculated on a prorated daily basis. Shipping at Lessee's Cost and
Risk.
Inbound Freight: $18,000.00
Outbound Freight: $14,000.00
Personal Property Tax: $0.00
Approximate Delivery Date 10/01/2020
(14 days advance written notice required)
Foundation Anchors: $16,550.00
Insured Value: $1,511,600.00
Guaranteed Minimum Rental Period: 36 months
Other Items
1. Monthly rental price based on calendar month. Hours of usage to be accumulative for duration of job. Hours used over 260 hours per month 
to be billed at $77.78 per hour, plus tax
2. Lessee to provide foundation according to specifications provided by Morrow.
3. Lessee to provide power (480 volt, 60 cycle, 3 phase, 200 amp) to equipment base, with fused disconnect, prior to commencement of 
erection.
4. Morrow will provide technical assistance during the erection, climbing, retorque, dismantle, third party and OSHA inspections only, for the 
following rate. Standard published rates apply to all other billing.
• $180.00 per hour Monday through Friday, 7:30 am to 4:00 pm
• $210.00 per hour Monday through Friday for hours worked before 7:30 am or after 4:00 pm
• $210.00 per hour on Saturday.
• $240.00 per hour on Sunday and holidays
• Minimum billing for a Service Technician is two (2) hours weekdays, and four (4) hours Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays
• $300.00 plus tax will be billed per site trip (includes mileage, service vehicle, tolls, parking, tools, insurance and travel time for sites within 
a 50 mile radius of Morrow yard.  Trips in excess of 50 miles will be billed at a rate of $1.80 per mile.
• Technician’s time starts and stops at Morrow’s American Canyon, CA facility
213 of 574

--- page 214 ---
5. Repair Agreement Trip Charge:  $300.00 plus tax will be billed per site trip (includes mileage, tolls, parking, tools and insurance - does NOT 
include travel time) for sites within a 50 mile radius of the Morrow yard.  Trips in excess of 50 miles will be billed at a rate of $1.80 per mile. 
Overtime, weekend or Holiday repair work, and delays shall be additionally charged to Customer at standard published rates.
6. Erection, climbing, retorque, dismantle, operation, maintenance, certification and OSHA inspection, insurance and test weights are for 
Lessee’s account.
7. Morrow’s enrollment in an OCIP/CCIP/Wrap Insurance program:  Contractor shall receive from Morrow all credits due for premiums due 
under the terms of the OCIP/CCIP/Wrap programs.  Should the program, however, required Morrow to provide a waiver of subrogation under 
its Workers Compensation insurance for on-site exposures there will be an annual charge of $5,700.00.  Should the program require Morrow to 
provide automobile liability insurance coverage naming the contractor as additional insured and a waiver of subrogation, there will be an 
annual charge of $3,800.00.
8.“Sundt Construction - Industrial Group acknowledges that a portion of the rental represents maintenance and service to the equipment in 
preparation for the project and following its completion unless covered by the Lessee’s Equipment Repair Agreement or where invoiced 
separately.”
All amounts stated in this quote are in US Dollars and exclusive of sale/use tax which are Lessee's responsibility and in accordance with Lessor's
Equipment Lease Agreement terms. This quote is valid for 30 days from its date and subject to location and availability of equipment.
214 of 574

--- page 215 ---
Erect & Dismantle Quote
Subcontract Erector
AME-12856
Printed 08/28/2019
Page 1 of 1
Quote prepared by: Chris Whittle
Cell (707) 815-6880 • Office (707) 644-3731 
c.whittle@morrow.com
Contractor
Project
Date
Sundt Construction
    San Mateo Waste Water Plant
08/28/2019
Mailing Address
Project Location
Sundt Construction - Industrial Group
San Mateo Waste Water Treatment Plant
2620 South 55th Street
2050 Detroit Drive
Tempe, AZ 858282
San Mateo, CA 94404
Crane #2 (east)
Revision 1
This agreement is between Morrow Equipment Co., LLC, (hereinafter "Morrow"), and Sundt Construction (hereinafter "Erector"). Erector agrees to provide
labor, assist crane, equipment, supervision and materials and all other items to erect, retorque (each), climb (each) and dismantle the equipment specified
herein in accordance with the Terms and Conditions attached hereto.
Equipment: 630 EC-H 20/40 Litronic
One (1) Liebherr model 630 EC-H 20 Litronic Freestanding Tower Crane.
Tower sections for a freestanding hook height of 157 feet.
Jib sections for a working hook radius of 267 feet from center line of tower.
Mac capacity of 44,090 lbs. to a radius of 93 feet from center line of tower, in LM2 Mode.
Tip capacity of 12,790 lbs. at 267 feet from center line of tower.
Morrow can arrange for required Independent Third Party Inspection, $7,000 per job site visit.
Annual post erection NDT inspections, estimated two (2) included in rental rate.
Erect:      $82,000.00
Scope: Mobile crane must be able to set up within 90 feet from center line of tower crane.
ReTorque (each):       $3,000.00
Scope: Includes technician on site, excludes both travel expenses and assist crane (if required).
Climb (each):           $0.00
Scope: No climbs required
Dismantle:      $82,000.00
Scope: Mobile crane must be able to set up within 90 feet from center line of tower crane.
All amounts are in US Dollars and are exclusive of sales/use tax which are Erector's responsibility. This quote is valid for 30 days from its date and
subject to location and availability of equipment.
215 of 574

--- page 216 ---
Repair Quote
Parts & Labor
AME-12856
Printed 08/28/2019
Page 1 of 1
Quote prepared by: Chris Whittle
Cell (707) 815-6880 • Office (707) 644-3731 
c.whittle@morrow.com
Lessee
Project
Date
08/28/2019
Sundt Construction
    San Mateo Waste Water Plant
Mailing Address
Project Location
Sundt Construction - Industrial Group
San Mateo Waste Water Treatment Plant
2620 South 55th Street
2050 Detroit Drive
Tempe, AZ 858282
San Mateo, CA 94404
Crane #2 (east)
Revision 1
Equipment: 630 EC-H 20/40 Litronic
Morrow Equipment Co., L.L.C., (hereinafter "Lessor") and Sundt Construction (hereinafter "Lessee") agree that Lessor will provide technician for technical
assistance and equipment parts to repair the above equipment at the above location on the following terms and conditions:
Monthly Charge:       $1,500.00 USD plus tax.
The repair rate is based on metered usage up to 260 hours per month. Hours over 260 are   $5.77 per hour with no reduction for use less than 260
hours per month.
Trip Charge:         $300.00 USD
Includes travel expenses, service vehicle, and tool charges, excludes air fare, per diem, and travel time. Applies to each jobsite visit. Commences upon 
delivery and expires on return of the equipment. This agreement must be exercised prior to delivery.
Term:
This Agreement applies for the duration of the rental period.
Repairs Provided:Lessor will provide a service technician for technical assistance and equipment parts (FOB Lessor warehouse) required to repair 
equipment due to normal wear and tear as requested by Lessee with exceptions set forth below:
Not Covered and are Lessee's Responsibility
1. Maintenance; oil changes; lubrication; all adjustments including limit switches, and inspections including those by OSHA, third party
inspectors and local authorities.
2. Repairs required due to vandalism, accident, neglect, misuse, improper operation or maintenance, unusual physical stress or weather
conditions, fire, flood or Act of God.
3. Overtime, weekend or holiday repair work, and delays which shall be additionally charged to Lessee at standard published rates.
4. Replacement or repair of all wire ropes and electrical cables.
5. Hoisting, and all other items required to perform repairs, labor assistance to Lessor's technician if repair requires more than one person.
Other Items
Repair Agreement Trip Charge:  $300.00 plus tax will be billed per site trip (includes mileage, tolls, parking, tools and 
insurance - does NOT include travel time) for sites within a 50 mile radius of the Morrow yard.  Trips in excess of 50 miles 
will be billed at a rate of $1.80 per mile. Overtime, weekend or Holiday repair work, and delays shall be additionally 
charged to Customer at standard published rates.
All amounts stated are in US Dollars. This quote is attached and made part of Equipment Lease Quote AME-12856 whose terms and conditions apply.
216 of 574

--- page 217 ---
FREESTANDING
Travelling and Stationary
Conﬁguration II
with 550 HC Tower
max. 195 ft (59.5m) HUH on concrete foundation
max. 222 ft (67.6m) HUH on 550 HC undercarriage
267 ft (81.4m)
550 HC tower sections
10 x 19'-0" (5.8m) = 190'-0" (58m)
27'-11"
8.5m
550HC Undercarriage
32'-10" (10m) Gauge
630 EC-H base section
"9-'0
4
m
2
4.2
1
10 x 19'-0" (5.8m) = 190'-0" (58m)
550 HC tower sections
Conﬁguration I
with 550 HC/630 EC-H Tower
max. 235 ft (71.7m) HUH on concrete foundation
max. 262 ft (80m) HUH on 630 EC-H undercarriage
630EC-H Undercarriage
32'-10" (10m) Gauge
27'-11"
8.5m
10'-2" (3.1m)
Min. hook radius
10 x 19'-0" (5.8m) = 190'-0" (58m)
550 HC tower sections
550 HC tower sections
10 x 19'-0" (5.8m) = 190'-0" (58m)
630 EC-H base section
"9-'0
4
m
2
4.2
1
7'-3"
2.2m
 
630 EC-H 20
Hammerhead Tower Crane
MEC-MKT-1303
1/23/19
1
217 of 574

--- page 218 ---
59'-9"
18.2m
92'-6"
28.2m
274'-3 "
83.6m
15'-1"
4.6m
NOTE:  See hook height charts below.
267 ft (81.4m)
234 ft (71.4m)
  sbl 0
0
9,1
1 
(5 400 kg)
  sbl 0
9
7,2
1 
(5 800 kg)  LM2
18'-4"
5.6m
10'-2"
3.1m
76'-1"
23.2m
201 ft (61.4m)
123 ft (37.4m)
162 ft (49.4m)
  34'-9"
10.6m
Hook Heights
 No. of 
Tower 
Hook Height 
Hook Height
 Tower Conﬁguration Concrete Foundation 10m Undercarriage
II
 snoitceS 
 
1 
550HC TS 
24 
7.2 
51 
15.4
 
2 
550HC TS 
43 
13.1 
70 
21.2
 
3 
550HC TS 
62 
18.9 
89 
27
 
4 
550HC TS 
81 
24.7 
108 
32.8
 
5 
550HC TS 
100 
30.5 
127 
38.6
 
6 
550HC TS 
119 
36.3 
146 
44.4
 
7 
550HC TS 
138 
42.1 
165 
50.2
 
8 
550HC TS 
157 
47.9 
184 
56
 
9 
550HC TS 
176 
53.7 
203 
61.8
 10 1 
550HC TS 
195 
59.5 
222 
67.6
 
ft 
m 
ft 
m
 No. of 
Tower 
Hook Height 
Hook Height
 Tower Conﬁguration Concrete Foundation 10m Undercarriage
 Elements 
I
 
1 
630ECH BTS 
45 
13.7 
72 
22
 
2 
550HC TS 
64 
19.5 
91 
27.8
 
3 
550HC TS 
83 
25.3 
110 
33.6
 
4 
550HC TS 
102 
31.1 
129 
39.4
 
5 
550HC TS 
121 
36.9 
148 
45.2
 
6 
550HC TS 
140 
42.7 
167 
51
 
7 
550HC TS 
159 
48.5 
186 
56.8
 
8 
550HC TS 
178 
54.3 
205 
62.6
 
9 
550HC TS 
197 
60.1 
224 
68.4
 10 
550HC TS 
216 
65.9 
243 
74.2
 11 1 
550HC TS 
235 
71.7 
262 
80
 
ft 
m 
ft 
m
1 Lower top climbing unit to base of crane prior to operating at maximum hook height.
NOTE:  Contact Morrow for speciﬁc information regarding 
alternate tower conﬁgurations, special jib assemblies, alter-
nate foundation details, dimensions, reaction forces and slab 
opening requirements.
Please consult 630 EC-H 20 Litronic Operations Manual before 
erecting, operating, servicing or dismantling crane.
FREESTANDING
with 550 HC Tower Sections
on concrete slab
  
 
  sbl 0
6
7,6
1 
(7 600 kg)
17,860 lbs  (8 100 kg)  LM2
  sbl 0
1
6,1
2 
(9 800 kg)
23,150 lbs  (10 500 kg)  LM2
29,760 lbs  (13 500 kg)
31,530 lbs  (14 300 kg)  LM2
42,550 lbs  (19 300 kg)
44,090 lbs  (20 000 kg)  LM2
8'-0"
2.45m
"4-'9
1
m
9.5
630 EC-H 20
MEC-MKT-1303
1/23/19
2
218 of 574

--- page 219 ---
630 EC-H 20
TOP CLIMBING
with 550 HC Tower Sections
Tied to structure
10 x 19'-0" (5.8m) = 190'-0" (58m) max.*
Tie-In
Assembly
 * Hydraulic Top 
Climbing Unit
4 x 19'-0" (5.8m) = 76'-0" (23.2m) min.
8 x 19'-0" (5.8m) = 152'-0" (46.4m) max.
Tie-In
Assembly
5 x 19'-0" (5.8m) = 95'-0" (29m) min.
10 x 19'-0" (5.8m) = 190'-0" (58.m) min.
Centerline
of crane tower
[Site conditions
dependent]
Tie-in
collar
Face of
Structure
Anchor shoe (2)
Adjustable
Tie-in Struts
[Site conditions
dependent]
NOTE:  The tie-in assembly shown above is an example of a typical installation. Please note, how -
ever, that factors determining the installation of tie-in assemblies may vary due to project speciﬁc 
requirements.
TIE-IN ASSEMBLY
Plan view
Connection plates 
by contractor (2)
bij fo n
oitceriD
.g
nib
milc n
eh
w
➜
NOTE: Lower the top climbing unit to the uppermost tie-in prior to 
operating crane at maximum hook height.
*
  
Consult Operations Manual before erecting, 
operating, servicing or dismantling crane.
8'-6" (2.6m) min.
[Max. dependent
upon project
speciﬁc criteria.]
MEC-MKT-1303
1/23/19
3
219 of 574

--- page 220 ---
630 EC-H 20
  
2-Part Line
 
e
n
i
L
 
t
r
a
P
-
2
LM2
LM1
with 550 HC Tower Section
on concrete slab
550 HC
tower section
Reinforcing 
steel each way
Foundation 
anchors (4)
7'-3" 
2.2m
7'-3" 
2.2m
10'-3" 
3.11m
Reinforcing 
steel each way
 
Hook 
Jib tip 
Maximum 
ft 
10 
49 
66 
82 
98 
123  
148 
162 
180 
201 
213 
234 
246 
267  
 Radius 
Radius 
Capacity – Radius  
m 
3.1 
15 
20 
25 
30 
37.4 
45 
49.4 
55 
61.4 
65 
71.4 
75 
81.4
 
 267 ft 
274'-3" 
44,090 lbs – 88 ft 
lbs 44,090 44,090 44,090 44,090 39,040 30,750 24,980 22,400 19,710 17,220 16,030 14,200 13,290 11,900
 81.4m 
83.6m 
20 000 kg – 26.73m  
kg 20 000 20 000 20 000 20 000 17 710 13 950 11 330 10 160 8 940 7 810 7 270 6 440 6 030 5 400
 234 ft 
241'-6" 
44,090 lbs – 100 ft 
lbs 44,090 44,090 44,090 44,090 44,090 35,540 28,970 26,060 23,020 20,170 18,830 16,760 
 71.4m 
73.6m 
20 000 kg – 30.54m 
kg 20 000 20 000 20 000 20 000 20 000 16 120 13 140 11 820 10 440 9 150 8 540 7 600
 201 ft 
208'-8" 
44,090 lbs – 106 ft 
lbs 44,090 44,090 44,090 44,090 44,090 37,830 30,890 27,820 24,580 21,610
 61.4m 
63.6m 
20 000 kg – 32.28m 
kg 20 000 20 000 20 000 20 000 20 000 17 160 14 010 12 620 11 150 9 800
 162 ft 
169'-4" 
44,090 lbs – 113 ft 
lbs 44,090 44,090 44,090 44,090 44,090 40,370 33,030 29,760
 49.4m 
51.6m 
20 000 kg – 34.41m 
kg 20 000 20 000 20 000 20 000 20 000 18 310 14 980 13 500
 123 ft 
129'-11" 
44,090 lbs – 119 ft 
lbs 44,090 44,090 44,090 44,090 44,090 42,550 
 37.4m 
39.6m 
20 000 kg – 36.16m 
kg 20 000 20 000 20 000 20 000 20 000 19 300
 267 ft 
274'-3" 
44,090 lbs – 93 ft 
lbs 44,090 44,090 44,090 44,090 41,360 32,630 26,540 23,830 21,010 18,390 17,130 15,210 14,260 12,790
 81.4m 
83.6m 
20 000 kg – 28.22m  
kg 20 000 20 000 20 000 20 000 18 760 14 800 12 040 10 810 9 530 8 340 7 770 6 900 6 470 5 800
 234 ft 
241'-6" 
44,090 lbs – 106 ft 
lbs 44,090 44,090 44,090 44,090 44,090 37,590 30,690 27,650 24,430 21,450 20,040 17,860 
 71.4m 
73.6m 
20 000 kg – 32.19m 
kg 20 000 20 000 20 000 20 000 20 000 17 050 13 920 12 540 11 080 9 730 9 090 8 100
 201 ft 
208'-8" 
44,090 lbs – 113 ft 
lbs 44,090 44,090 44,090 44,090 44,090 40,300 32,980 29,720 26,300 23,150
 61.4m 
63.6m 
20 000 kg – 34.37m 
kg 20 000 20 000 20 000 20 000 20 000 18 280 14 960 13 480 11 930 10 500
 162 ft 
169'-4" 
44,090 lbs – 119 ft 
lbs 44,090 44,090 44,090 44,090 44,090 42,660 34,940 31,530
 49.4m 
51.6m 
20 000 kg – 36.26m 
kg 20 000 20 000 20 000 20 000 20 000 19 350 15 850 14 300
 123 ft 
129'-11" 
44,090 lbs – 123 ft 
lbs 44,090 44,090 44,090 44,090 44,090 44,090 
 37.4m 
39.6m 
20 000 kg – 37.4m 
kg 20 000 20 000 20 000 20 000 20 000 20 000
IMPORTANT:  Litronic® cranes are equipped with Liebherr's state of the art PLC system that provides precise monitoring, control and coordi-
nation of all crane functions. This feature also permits a load increase of up to 10% as illustrated in the heavy lift mode (LM2 ) chart above. 
Heavy lift mode is permitted only when wind speed is less than 31 mph (50 kph). Contact Morrow for more information regarding the many 
features of the 630 EC-H 20 Litronic tower crane.
Reinforcing 
steel each way
Reinforcing 
steel each way
with 630 EC-H Base Section
on concrete slab
Foundation 
anchors (4)
630 EC-H
base section
7'-3" 
2.2m
7'-3" 
2.2m
10'-3" 
3.11m
MEC-MKT-1303
1/23/19
4
220 of 574

--- page 221 ---
630 EC-H 20
Power Requirements
Motor Information
 Trolley (FC) 
14.7 hp 
11 kW 
0 – 223 fpm 
 
0 – 68 m/min
 
Swing (fluid coupling) 
2 x 14.2 hp 
2 x 10.6 kW  
 
0.6 rpm
 
Traveling (fluid coupling) 
4 x 10 hp 
4 x 7.5 kW  
82 fpm 
 
25.0 m/min
 
Drive Unit 
Horsepower 
Kilowatts 
Speed 
 
Hoist Unit 
WiW 300 VZ 401 
2-Part Line
  
d
e
e
p
S
 
e
n
i
L
 
 
y
tic
a
p
a
C
 
d
e
e
p
S
 
e
n
i
L
 
 
y
tic
a
p
a
C
 
d
e
e
p
S
  
Hoist Speed and Capacity
1
2
3
 147 hp  (110 kW) FC hoist unit
  Variable frequency drive (VFD)
  3-speed electromagnetic gear shifting
  
6L - 237
IMPORTANT:  Capacities and line speeds indicated will vary depending on the amount of hoist wire rope installed. This crane model may be equipped with a hoist unit other 
than that speciﬁed in the data shown above. To verify, check serial number and refer to 630 EC-H 20 Litronic Operation Manual for additional information.
 
up to 44,090 lbs 
@ 
89 fpm 
up to 20 000 kg 
@ 
27 m/min
 
up to 21,605 lbs 
@ 
157 fpm  
up to 9 800 kg 
@ 
48 m/min  
 
up to 25,355 lbs 
@ 
151 fpm 
up to 11 500 kg 
@ 
46 m/min
 
up to 11,245 lbs 
@ 
266 fpm  
up to 5 100 kg 
@ 
81 m/min  
 
up to 14,110 lbs 
@ 
253 fpm 
up to 6 400 kg 
@ 
77 m/min
 
up to 4,850 lbs 
@ 
459 fpm  
up to 2 200 kg 
@ 
140 m/min
LM1
  
MEC-MKT-1303
1/23/19
5
Power supply: 3-phase 480 V, 60 Hz; 3-wire plus ground; no Neutral.
480 V phase-phase, 277 V each phase to ground with 120° phase shift between phases.
Service size: 200 Amperes 
NOTES: 
1. For electric power provided by an electric utility, do not use open Delta transformers.
2. For electric power provided by a generator, the  minimum generator size required is 200 kW. Verify the generator provided 
is suitable for use with variable frequency drives (VFDs). A properly sized generator is critical to the safe operation of the crane.
Speciﬁcations subject to change without prior notice. For additional information, contact MORROW.
221 of 574

--- page 222 ---
630 EC-H 20
Component List
@MorrowEquipment:
www.morrow.com
info@morrow.com
(503) 585 – 5721
Tower Top 1 
34'-3" x 5'-11" x 7'-3" 
15,540 lbs 
 
10.44m x 1.8m x 2.2m 
7 050 kg
Slewing Assembly 
21'-3" x 9'-9" x 10'-5" 
48,280 lbs
(Complete) 2 
6.47m x 2.98m x 3.17m 21 900 kg
Slewing Assembly 
15'-11" x 9'-10" x 9'-10" 22,490 lbs
Upper Part 3 
 4.85m x 3m x 3m 
10 200 kg
Slewing Ring 
11" x 7'-3" x 7'-3" 
6,615 lbs
 
0.28m x 2.22m x 2.22m 
3 000 kg
Slewing Ring Support 
4'-11" x 9'-5" x 10'-4" 
14,550 lbs
 
1.51m x 2.87m x 3.16m 
6 600 kg
Slewing Gears (2) 
6'-11" x 2'-0" x 2'-0" 
2,200 lbs
(each) 
2.12m x 0.6m x 0.6m 
1 000 kg
Slewing Unit 
3'-3" x 3'-7" x 3'-7" 
880 lbs
Access Platforms 
1.0m x 1.1m x 1.1m 
400 kg
AC Hoist Unit (FC) 4 
9'-10" x 7'-8" x 8'-4" 
12,150 lbs
147 hp (110 kW) 
2.99m x 2.33m x 2.54m 
5 510 kg
Counterjib Section 1 5 
22'-8" x 6'-6" x 6'-5" 
7,720 lbs 
(Inner) 
6.9m x 1.98m x 1.96m 
3 500 kg
Counterjib Section 2 5 
17'-1" x 6'-3" x 6'-5" 
6,610 lbs 
(Intermediate) 
5.2m x 1.9m x 1.96m 
3 000 kg
Counterjib Section 3 5 
34'-5" x 7'-7" x 8'-2" 
13,230 lbs 
(Outer) 
10.5m x 2.32m x 2.48m 
6 000 kg
Counterjib A 6 
56'-5" x 9'-4" x 8'-2" 
26,240 lbs 
(1-3) 
17.2m x 2.84m x 2.48m  11 900 kg
Counterjib B 7 
72'-10" x 9'-4" x 8'-2" 
32,850 lbs
(1-2-3) 
22.2m x 2.84m x 2.48m 14 900 kg
Counterjib C 8 
89'-3" x 9'-4" x 8'-2" 
39,460 lbs
(1-2-2-3) 
27.2m x 2.84m x 2.48m 17 900 kg
Tower Section 
20'-7" x 8'-0" x 8'-0" 
14,300 lbs
550 HC (Pin/Pin) 
6.28m x 2.45m x 2.45m 
6 485 kg
Base Section  
40'-9" x 8'-10" x 8'-10" 31,965 lbs
630 EC-H (P/B) 
12.42m x 2.68m x 2.68m 14 500 kg
Top Climbing Unit 9 
40'-9" x 9'-1" x 10'-4" 
22,420 lbs
w/hydraulics 
12.42m x 2.77m x 3.16m 10 170 kg
Trolley 
10'-8" x 6'-8" x 8'-5" 
1,920 lbs
   
3.25m x 2.02m x 2.57m 
870 kg
Jib Butt Section ➀  
40'-5" x 6'-6" x 7'-10" 
14,770 lbs 
#611 
12.31m x 1.99m x 2.38m  6 700 kg
Jib Section ➁ 
40'-3" x 5'-10" x 7'-4" 
9,040 lbs
#621 
12.28m x 1.77m x 2.23m 4 100 kg
Jib Section ➂ 
40'-2" x 5'-10" x 6'-7" 
6,610 lbs
#631 
12.25m x 1.77m x 1.99m 3 000 kg
Jib Section ➃ 
40'-3" x 5'-10" x 6'-6" 
5,840 lbs
#632 
12.27m x 1.77m x 1.97m 2 650 kg
Jib Section ➄ 
40'-3" x 5'-10" x 6'-6" 
6,060 lbs
#633 
12.27m x 1.77m x 1.97m 2 750 kg
Jib Section ➅ 
33'-10" x 5'-10" x 6'-5" 
3,615 lbs
#634 
10.3m x 1.77m x 1.96m 
1 640 kg
Jib Section ➆ 
33'-8" x 5'-10" x 6'-4" 
2,625 lbs
#635 
10.25m x 1.77m x 1.95m 1 190 kg
Jib Tip Section ➇ 
8'-5" x 6'-4" x 7'-5" 
1,190 lbs
#641 
2.56m x 1.94m x 2.25m 
540 kg
Jib Assembly (Part 1) 10 
79'-6" x 7'-2" x 7'-10" 
39,020 lbs
for 157-ft to 262-ft jibs 
24.22m x 2.19m x 2.38m 17 700 kg
Jib Assembly (Part 2) 11 
192'-1" x 6'-4" x 7'-5" 
29,100 lbs
267-ft (81.4m) 
58.54m x 1.94m x 2.25m 13 200 kg
Jib Assembly (Part 2) 11 
159'-3" x 6'-4" x 7'-5" 
26,010 lbs
234-ft (71.4m) 
48.54m x 1.94m x 2.25m 11 800 kg
Jib Assembly (Part 2) 11 
126'-5" x 6'-4" x 7'-5" 
22,050 lbs
201-ft (61.4m) 
38.54m x 1.94m x 2.25m 10 000 kg
Jib Assembly (Part 2) 11 
87'-0" x 6'-4" x 7'-5" 
15,430 lbs
162-ft (49.4m) 
26.54m x 1.94m x 2.25m  7 000 kg
Jib Assembly (Part 1A) 12 
79'-5" x 7'-2" x 7'-10" 
36,820 lbs
for 123-ft (37.4m) jib 
24.22m x 2.19m x 2.38m  16 700 kg
Jib Assembly (Part 2A) 13 
47'-8" x 6'-4" x 7'-5" 
9,040 lbs
123-ft (37.4m) 
14.54m x 1.94m x 2.25m 4 250 kg
Counterweight 
4'-6" x 11" x 9'-10" 
6,350 lbs
Block A 
1.37m x 0.28 x 3m 
2 880 kg
Counterweight 
4'-6" x 11" x 13'-7" 
8,730 lbs
Block C 
1.37m x 0.28 x 4.15m 
3 960 kg
Hook Block 
2'-8" x 1'-8" x 9'-10" 
2,130 lbs
 
0.8m x 0.5m x 3m 
965 kg
 Description 
 
Weight 
Description 
 
Weight
Dimensions
L x W x H
Dimensions
L x W x H
➀➁ 
➂➃➄➅➆➇ 
➂➃➄➅➇ 
➂➃➄➇ 
➂➄➇ 
➀➁ 
➂➇ 
L 
W
H
W
L
H
W
L
H
L 
W
H
L 
W
H
L 
W
H
W
L
H
W
L
H
W
L
H
W
L
H
W
L
H
W
L
H
W
L
H
W
L
H
W
L
H
W
L
H
W
L
H
W
L
H
W
L
H
W
L
H
W
L
H
L 
W
H
L 
W
H
L 
W
H
W
L
H
L 
W
H
L 
W
H
 Weights and dimensions are approximate. Scale components before lifting. 
vicing or dismantling crane.
W
L
H
W
L
H
1 Tower Top includes ladder, service platforms and pendants.
2 Slewing Assembly Complete includes operator’s cab, 2 slewing gears, slewing ring, slewing ring support, 
2 service platforms and 4 climbing shoes. To facilitate erection/dismantlement process, the Slewing 
Assembly can be broken down into various components. See 630EC-H Operations Manual.
3 Slewing Assembly Upper Part includes operator’s cab. Does not include slewing gears.
4 Includes hoist unit, electrical panel and handrails. Does not include wire rope.
5 Counterjib sections include handrails and hardware. 
6  Counterjib A includes counterjib sections 1 & 3, handrails, hardware, D-block, and pendant bars.
7 
Counterjib B includes counterjib sections 1, 2 and 3, handrails, hardware, D-block, and pendants.
8 
Counterjib C includes counterjib sections 1, 2 (2) and 3, handrails, hardware, D-block, and pendants.
9 Can be broken down into two panels.
10 Jib Assembly (Part 1) includes jib sections, A-frame, pendant bars with pins & plates, and trolley with 
20t hook block.
11 Jib Assemblies (Part 2) include jib sections, pendant bars with pins and plates. 
12 Jib Assembly (Part 1A) includes jib sections, pendant bars with pins & plates, and trolley with 20t hook 
block.
13 Jib Assembly (Part 2A) includes jib sections, pendant bars with pins and plates.
  
 
 
NOTE:
Please consult Operations Manual before erecting, operating, ser
6
MEC-MKT-1303 1/23/19
222 of 574

--- page 223 ---
EVANS BROTHERS INC.
7589 NATIONAL DRIVE Bi
LIVERMORE, CA 94550-8801
CONT. LIC. 443018

Date December 10, 2019
Estimator Kelvin Love
Sundt
Attn: Andre Castaneda
2620 S, 55% Street
Tempe, AZ 85282

RE: SMWTTP GMP 2 (Revised)
Subject: Excavation of an additional pit. Placement of AB/Drain rock on pad

Evans Brothers Inc. (EBI), a general engineering, demolition, and remediation contractor,
proposes to furnish all equipment, labor, material, license, insurance and taxes to perform the following
work at the above referenced site per the following:

Reference Documents
Sundt Noted Drawings/Sketches 53$202,53S5301, 538302 (004), GMP1_C221 222, Sheet 528404

as noted by Sundt.

Scope of Proposal
ON SITE

e Excavate and off haul from the site an additional 10’ below the proposed Subgrade from
GMP 1 at the location shown on the above drawings.
e Off haul material to an approved dump site.
e Plate shoring to be installed by shoring contractor.
e Supply and install a 4” (lean concrete) rat slab at the bottom of the excavation.
Lump Sum Price $209,156.00

e Excavate and off haul from the site, the elevator pit. Shoring is by others. Total excavation
for the elevator pit is 13’-4” x 10-9” x 7’ deep. Price includes off haul of materials, installing
a4” (lean concrete) Rat Slab as well as 1 pump to pump storm water out of the bottom.
Pump will include 100 If of discharge hose and 200 If of extension cord.

Lump Sum Price $30,100.00
Add Alt #1:

© Import place and compact 4” of recycled AB over the lime treated sub-grade at the bottom of
the excavation.

Lump Sum Price $103,410.00

Add Alt #2:
e Import place and compact 4” of %” recycled drain rock over the lime treated sub grade at the

bottom of the excavation
Lump Sum Price $159,350.00
Both above Add Alt prices do not include removal and off haul of the material. Removal at time of pile
placement to be by others. Off haul to be determined at a later date.

Add Alt #3:
e While place the rat slab in the bottom of the excavation, leave to depressed areas to act as
Page | of 4
TEL (925) 443-0225 www.evansbrothers.com FAX (925) 443-0229
&nbsp;

223 of&nbsp;574


--- page 224 ---
TEL (925) 443-0225

EVANS BROTHERS INC.
7589 NATIONAL DRIVE Bi

LIVERMORE, CA 94550-8801
CONT. LIC. 443018

sumps for water. Supply and install 2-2” trash pumps, connect to French drain at closest point
(with in 100’) Supply 2-100’ extension cords to connect to electricity.

Lump Sum Price

Add Alt #4:

$3,500.00

e Load, off haul and dispose of Drilling Spoils from installation of the piles. It is understood that
these spoils will be lime treated material. Does not include any additional bay mud. Hauled to

Ox Mountain Landfill

Unit Price

$1,550.00/LD

Unless otherwise explicitly stated as included in the above outlined scope of work, this proposal is
subject to all of the following exclusions and clarifications.

Exclusions
©  Handling/removal of contaminated, hazardous,

asbestos containing, refrigerant, mold or other
regulated material or soil:

e Permits or fees

e Surveys, testing, staking, or monitoring:

e =Engineering or layout:

e Removal of adhered walls or foundations:

e Utility disconnects, capping, relocation,
temporary, removal, fees:

e Shoring, bracing or underpinning and sheeting’

e Storm Water Prevention Plan, design
reporting, monitoring or maintenance:

e Subsidence:

© L&H and Jones Act insurance coverage:

e Enclosures, weather proofing, painting,
patching and sealing of any kind:

© Wet weather/condition grading:

° Petromat in/under asphalt paving:

° Sanitary sewer and water connection
demolition:

© Relocation of light standards:

° Adjusting, lowering, paving around, or patching
for underground/utility castings:

e Demolition of existing structures, UON-

e Dewatering of any kind, ripping & turning or
chemical treatment of wet materials for soils
drying:

e Export of strippings: Export:

e Fine grading of lots/parking lot islands or

landscape areas:

www.evansbrothers.com

Landscape excavation: Landscape restoration:
Off-site work:

Sanitation facilities:

Pile/caisson extraction/removal:
Removal/handling of spoils from other trades:
Rock excavation:

Speed bumps or asphalt wheel chair ramps:
Street signs, striping or monuments:
Termite/insect/weed control:

Tree trimming/protection:

Trench excavation, structural excavation or
backfill.

Underground demolition:

Underground storage tank removal or well
capping:

Soil moisture maintenance after completion of
excavation/grading operation:

Excavation for thickened/deepened edges of
concrete curbs, sidewalks, or slabs:

Site Security:

Traffic Control beyond flagging for our own
work

Labor Agreements beyond Operating Engineers
Local 3 & Northern California Laborers Unions
Retention

Bond Cost (if required add 1-3%)

Liquidated or Consequential damages in excess
of $17,000 per day

OCIP deductibles in excess of $5,000 per

occurrence

Page 2 of 4
FAX (925) 443-0229

&nbsp;
224 of&nbsp;574



--- page 225 ---
EVANS BROTHERS INC.
7589 NATIONAL DRIVE Bi

LIVERMORE, CA 94550-8801
CONT. LIC. 443018

e Import fill, VON: Import or grading of
topsoil:

e  Sub-drains, VON:

e  Sub-excavation, over-excavation, and re-

compaction, VON:

Clarifications:

1. Proposal based on reaching a mutually agreed upon schedule and contract of which the
language of this proposal shall be incorporated. Work shall be scheduled such that said Work
shall be a minimum of 8 hours and based on conditions of items 5 and 11 below.

2. Any indemnity extended by Evans Brothers shall be limited to the extent that the claim results
from the work performed by Evans Brothers. Evans Brothers will not indemnify any party that
is actively or passively at fault or for any misconduct by others.

3. Water, power, and sanitation facilities to be supplied by the Owner or General Contractor at no
cost to EBI.

4. All monies due thirty-five days after completion of our work and right to discontinue work for
non-payment of monthly progress/extra work billing after 45 days of General’s established
billing cut-off date.

5. Work based on (1) rough grade move in. Work to be performed in (1) Phase. Additional

demolition/grading mobilizations are $4800 per occurrence.

Work to be performed during normal work hours on normal work days.

Includes two million dollars in General Liability and Automobile Insurance.

Proposal is good for 30 days.

All salvage becomes the property of Evans Brothers, Inc.

0. EBI to be provided unimpeded access to our work to facilitate the work with heavy equipment

and machinery. Clear access to work to be given at all times.

11. Pricing based on a continuous uninterrupted operation.

12. Asphalt pricing based on current energy conditions (liquid asphalt oil @ $355/ton). Adverse
effects on energy marketplace could affect final asphalt pricing.

13. Traffic (vehicular/pedestrian) control limited to non-electronic signage, flaggers, cones and/or
barricades for EB! ingress/egress. Specifically excluded are police officers, k-rails, fences,
canopies, and safety railing.

14, General to provide parking/permits for this sub-contractor.

15. Pricing figured on diesel fuel at $3.50 per gallon.

16. Should Extra Work be requested of EBI when EBI is not working on site, General/Owner agrees
to pay for 8-hour minimum on all crew, equipment, mobilizations charges, and overhead and
profit for said Extra Work.

17. Pricing based on Specs not seen.

18. Bio-swales and fine lot grading are not included in the above scope of work.

19. Excess soils to be off-hauled by this contractor are figured to be clean, non-regulated and can be
taken to any public landfill or used as unrestricted fill material.

20, All excess material will be off hauled and legally disposed of. We have assumed all material
is Non-Regulated / Unrestricted soil free of debris and does not contain any contaminates of
concern above the SWRCB risk based screening level for residential use. Analytical data in
accordance with DTSC Fill Testing Protocol for stockpiled soil to be provided by others at no

PO OND

cost to EB]
Page 3 of 4
TEL (925) 443-0225 www.evansbrothers.com FAX (925) 443-0229
&nbsp;

225 of&nbsp;574


--- page 226 ---
EVANS BROTHERS INC.
7589 NATIONAL DRIVE Bi

LIVERMORE, CA 94550-8801
CONT. LIC, 443018

All of the terms, exclusions, and clarifications contained in the proposal are an integral part of the
scope and related pricing. Acceptance of this proposal implies acceptance of all the terms and any
contract or agreement deriving from this proposal shall incorporate the exclusions and
clarifications, The terms and conditions herein stated shall supersede any conflicting provisions of a
subcontract agreement or purchase order.

We appreciate the opportunity to provide you with this proposal. Feel free to contact us if we can
be of further assistance.

Sincerely, ws

— will
ee eee
ae

Kelvin Love
Evans Brothers Inc.

Page 4 of 4
TEL (925) 443-0225 www. evansbrothers.com FAX (925) 443-0229

&nbsp;
226 of&nbsp;574


--- page 227 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
12/19/2019
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3100 - Earthwork
510,606.00
$    
Response
2.4 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit C - Project Schedule (if a Schedule was 
provided), and any exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of this Bid Form. 
Yes
2.5 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit D - Sundt Safety System Manual, and any 
 
excep7ons have been listed in Ques7on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Yes
2.6 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit E - List of Contract Documents, and any 
 
excep7ons have been listed in Ques7on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Yes
2.7 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit F - Quality Systems Manual, and any 
 
excep7ons have been listed in Ques7on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Yes
2.8 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit G - Insurance Manual, and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques7on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Yes
Questions
Project Scope 
Subcontractor Quote:
2.1 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of the plans and specifications (including 
 
appendices), and any excep7ons have been listed in Ques7on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Yes
2.2 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit A - Scope of Work Directive, and any 
exceptions in this Bid Form. 
Yes
2.3 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit B - Instructions to Bidders, and any 
exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of this Bid Form. 
Yes
 General Information
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
Evans Brothers
Kelvin Love
(925) 443-0225
12/15/2019
227 of 574

--- page 228 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
12/19/2019
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3100 - Earthwork
510,606.00
$    
Subcontractor Quote:
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
Evans Brothers
Kelvin Love
(925) 443-0225
12/15/2019
3.2 - Identify any and all elements related the work of this Bid Package that are excluded from 
 
this Bid, or related elements that are assumed by Bidder to be provided by others.
See Proposal
3.3 - Clarify design elements that are absent from the Bidding Document effecting the 
 
warrantability of the work to be provided under this Bid Package.
See Proposal
3.4 - Shop drawing and submittal preparation lead time:
NA
3.5 - Fabrication & delivery lead time:
NA
2.9 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit H - Textura Overview and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques7on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Yes
2.10 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, 
and are in full compliance with all flow-down requirements of Exhibit I - Prime Contract, and any 
 
excep7ons have been listed in Ques7on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Yes
y
g
g
p
Form of Agreement, and (a) agrees to all the terms and conditions of the Sample Form of 
Agreement, or (b) has provided Sundt with a redlined copy of the Sample Form of Agreement, or 
(c) has provided Sundt with a list of specific exceptions referenced by paragraph number. Note 
that failure to sign this acknowledgment may result in this Bid being considered non-responsive 
and subject to disqualification. 
(a) Bidder agrees to all the terms and conditions of the 
Sample Form of Agreement
6.0 - The bidder acknowledges the right of Sundt Construction, Inc. and/or the Owner to reject 
any and all bids, and to waive any informality or irregularity in any bid received, or to negotiate 
contract terms with the various Bidders, when such is deemed by Sundt Construction, Inc. 
and/or the Owner to be in the best interest of the Project.  (Electronic Signature) 
Kelvin Love
3.1 - Identify any items included in this Bid, and related to the work of this Bid Package, that are 
 
not in compliance with the Bidding Documents.
See Proposal
228 of 574

--- page 229 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
12/19/2019
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3100 - Earthwork
510,606.00
$    
Subcontractor Quote:
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
Evans Brothers
Kelvin Love
(925) 443-0225
12/15/2019
5.1 - MBE/WBE Participation - Amount of participation by Certified Firms included in net bid 
(2nd, 3rd Tier Subcontractors/Suppliers) represented by percentage: 
0
5.2 - MBE/WBE Participation - Dollar Value of participation included in Net Bid: 
0
2.11 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, 
and are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit J - City of San Mateo Business 
cooperation/Use tax enhancement program and any exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 
 
of this Bid Form.
Yes
4.0 - Markups and Fess for Changes in the Work - Additional Self-Performed Work - Overhead & 
Profit (in percent):
15%
4.1 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Additional Second Tier Subcontractor Work - 
Overhead & Profit (in percent): 
15%
4.2 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Deductive Self-Performed Work - Overhead & 
Profit (in percent): 
15%
4.3 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Deductive Second Tier Subcontractor Work - 
Overhead & Profit (in percent): 
15%
5.0 - MBE/WBE Participation - Amount of participation by certified firms included in net bid 
(100% if bidder is certified) represented by percentage: 
0
3.6 - Qualifications or exceptions to any procedures described in the Instructions to Bidders shall 
be listed below.  This includes any exceptions to the Sample Standard Form of 
 
Agreement.
NA
229 of 574

--- page 230 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
12/19/2019
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3100 - Earthwork
510,606.00
$    
Subcontractor Quote:
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
Evans Brothers
Kelvin Love
(925) 443-0225
12/15/2019
2.19 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder acknowledges that a complete 
SUBCONTRACTOR QUALIFICATION FORM, and its associated requirements, must be complete 
before Sundt will consider issuing a Subcontract. Please contact Andre Castaneda at 480-293-
 
3130, acastaneda@sundt.com to validate your company’s prequaliﬁca7on status.
Yes
Code Scope 
All training required to meet manufacturers or industry standards is to be included including any 
trade qualifications required.   
Yes
2.14 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, 
and are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit M - Prevailing Wages and any 
 
excep7ons have been listed in Ques7on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Yes
2.15 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, 
and are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit N - Lean Construction and any 
 
excep7ons have been listed in Ques7on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Yes
2.16 - Bidder certifies that they have included all required spare parts, training, submittals, O&M 
manuals, shop drawings and installation checks, etc. as listed in the Specifications. Any 
 
excep7ons shall be listed in Ques7on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Yes
2.17 - Bidder certifies that the price listed on this Bid Form is a firm price through the final 
delivery of the equipment/materials proposed herein, and that no material escalations will be 
accepted as part of any subsequent Agreement. Any exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 
 
of this Bid Form.
Yes
2.18 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, the Bidder confirms that they are in agreement 
with, understand, and have included any additional costs that may be associated with providing 
 
all warran7es as stated within the Bidding Documents including applicable Speciﬁca7ons.
Yes
2.12 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, 
and are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit K - City of San Mateo Contractors 
 
Ques7onnaire and any excep7ons have been listed in Ques7on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Yes
2.13 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, 
and are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit L - San Mateo WWTP - BAAQMD 
Scope requirements - Basic construction mitigation measures and any exceptions have been 
 
listed in Ques7on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Yes
230 of 574

--- page 231 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
12/19/2019
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3100 - Earthwork
510,606.00
$    
Subcontractor Quote:
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
Evans Brothers
Kelvin Love
(925) 443-0225
12/15/2019
Project Specific - As a bay area project, the City of San Mateo has requested that we utilize, to 
the greatest extent possible, “local” labor.  Upon award, the selected subcontractor for this 
scope of work will provide a local labor hire plan for review and approval.  Local hire plan will 
demonstrate good faith effort and best practices for hiring of local labor.  “Local” is considered 
to include all localities within the 9 bay area counties. 
Yes
Project Specific - The City of San Mateo is considering implementation of a Project Labor 
Agreement (PLA) on the project.  Should the City of San Mateo decide to implement the PLA, 
subcontractor will be allowed to review PLA terms and provide any cost adjustments needed. 
Yes
q p
p
p
y
y
y
the intended work activities.  Subcontractor equipment is subject to inspection at the discretion 
of the CMAR.  Equipment that does not conform to the National, State, Local and Site 
requirements and manufacturer specifications shall be promptly repaired or replaced with 
equipment acceptable to CMAR without additional cost to the CMAR and without delay to the 
schedule.   
Subcontractor will participate in Sundt Construction scheduling meetings including all required 
Lean Pull Planning Sessions, 6 weeks look ahead meetings (held weekly) and other meetings as 
required to ensure accuracy and completeness of Sundt Construction Schedule.  Subcontractor 
shall attend other meetings as required to coordinate, plan or otherwise participate with project 
teams. 
Yes
Subcontractor shall comply with project Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) as 
pertains to their Work. Project specific SWPPP requires Best Management Practices (BMPs) to be 
in place prior to any excavation. BMP coordination is the responsibility of the Subcontractor. 
Subcontractor shall protect all SWPPP BMP installations from damage and repair any damage to 
BMPs caused by Subcontractor’s actions. 
Yes
Cleanup of work area to be completed daily. Subcontractor is required to maintain a neat and 
orderly work area free of debris.
Yes
p
q
y
similar to the WBS as shown on the bid breakdown.  Scope progress and payment progress will 
be based on rules of credit developed in conjunction with Sundt upon award of contract.  Upon 
award subcontractor will provide adequate cost breakdown as required to fill out progress 
tracking reports.
Yes
Perform all work in accordance with plans, specifications and all applicable local, state and 
federal codes and standards. 
Yes
Subcontractor will adhere to all requirements of Sundt’s site specific and standard safety policies 
without exception. 
Yes
231 of 574

--- page 232 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
12/19/2019
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3100 - Earthwork
510,606.00
$    
Subcontractor Quote:
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
Evans Brothers
Kelvin Love
(925) 443-0225
12/15/2019
Item Description
UOM
Quantity
$ Unit Price
$ Total
Excavate and Haul off BioActiflo Area
LS
1
209,156.00
$      
209,156.00
$      
Elevator Pit
LS
1
30,100.00
$         
30,100.00
$         
Import, Place, and Compact 4" of 3/4" Drain Rock over Lime 
Treated Area
LS
1
159,350.00
$       
159,350.00
$       
Supply and Install Trash Pumps at bottom of Rat Slab
LS
1
3,500.00
$           
3,500.00
$           
Load, Off Haul and Dispose of Drilling Spoils
LD
70
1,550.00
$           
108,500.00
$      
Project Specific - The Project is subject to Prevailing Wage Rates and Certified Payrolls.  
Subcontractor will adhere to all requirements of the California Department of Industrial 
Relations including labor rates and apprenticeship requirements.  See Exhibit N_Prevailing 
Wages and Attachment 1_Sample Agreements for additional direction. 
Yes
j
p
p
j
p
g
g
applicable WIFIA funding requirements including, but not limited to, American Iron & Steel 
requirements.  In addition, WIFIA requires that the project includes Davis Bacon Labor 
requirements.  Subcontractor will review Prevailing Wage and Davis Bacon Labor and include the 
more stringent of the two.  WIFIA funding requirements can be found here: 
https://www.epa.gov/wifia/wifia-resources#handbook 
Yes
Bid Breakdown
Equipment shall be properly maintained and be free of oil, fuel or chemical leaks.  Containment 
and protection against leaks and spills will be installed in accordance with local and state 
requirements.  Subcontractor shall immediately report, clean and properly dispose of any oils, 
fuels, or chemicals spilled onto the project site, including any spill contaminated soils. 
Comments:
Yes
Project Specific - This project has a liquidated damages clause listed in Section 6.6 of the Prime 
Contract based on the Substantial Complete date set at $5,000 per day and $2,500 per day for 
Final Completion.  The Substantial Complete date is will be finalized upon approval of the GMP2 
Baseline Schedule as noted in 6.2.1.  Please refer to the preliminary schedule (bidding document 
Exhibit C). 
Yes
232 of 574

--- page 233 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
2/26/2020
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3123 - Groundwater and Storm Water Treatment System
$539,115.09
Response
General Information
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
Clear Creek Systems, Inc.
Tony Wilson
(925) 273-9896
12/19/2019
Questions
Project Scope 
Subcontractor Quote:
2.1 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of the plans and specifications (including appendices), 
 
and any excep8ons have been listed in Ques8on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.2 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit A - Scope of Work Directive, and any 
exceptions in this Bid Form. 
2.3 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit B - Instructions to Bidders, and any 
exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of this Bid Form. 
2.4 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit C - Project Schedule (if a Schedule was 
provided), and any exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of this Bid Form. 
2.5 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit D - Sundt Safety System Manual, and any 
 
excep8ons have been listed in Ques8on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.6 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit E - List of Contract Documents, and any 
 
excep8ons have been listed in Ques8on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.7 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit F - Quality Systems Manual, and any 
 
excep8ons have been listed in Ques8on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.8 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit G - Insurance Manual, and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques8on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.9 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit H - Textura Overview and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques8on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
233 of 574

--- page 234 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
2/26/2020
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3123 - Groundwater and Storm Water Treatment System
$539,115.09
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
Clear Creek Systems, Inc.
Tony Wilson
(925) 273-9896
12/19/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
2.10 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all flow-down requirements of Exhibit I - Prime Contract, and any 
 
excep8ons have been listed in Ques8on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
1.1 - By signature below, Bidder acknowledges that it has read Sundt’s Attachment 1 Sample Form 
of Agreement, and (a) agrees to all the terms and conditions of the Sample Form of Agreement, or 
(b) has provided Sundt with a redlined copy of the Sample Form of Agreement, or (c) has provided 
Sundt with a list of specific exceptions referenced by paragraph number. Note that failure to sign 
this acknowledgment may result in this Bid being considered non-responsive and subject to 
6.0 - The bidder acknowledges the right of Sundt Construction, Inc. and/or the Owner to reject any 
and all bids, and to waive any informality or irregularity in any bid received, or to negotiate 
contract terms with the various Bidders, when such is deemed by Sundt Construction, Inc. and/or 
the Owner to be in the best interest of the Project.  (Electronic Signature) 
3.1 - Identify any items included in this Bid, and related to the work of this Bid Package, that are 
 
not in compliance with the Bidding Documents.
3.2 - Identify any and all elements related the work of this Bid Package that are excluded from this 
 
Bid, or related elements that are assumed by Bidder to be provided by others.
3.3 - Clarify design elements that are absent from the Bidding Document effecting the 
 
warrantability of the work to be provided under this Bid Package.
3.4 - Shop drawing and submittal preparation lead time:
3.5 - Fabrication & delivery lead time:
3.6 - Qualifications or exceptions to any procedures described in the Instructions to Bidders shall be 
 
listed below.  This includes any excep8ons to the Sample Standard Form of Agreement.
234 of 574

--- page 235 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
2/26/2020
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3123 - Groundwater and Storm Water Treatment System
$539,115.09
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
Clear Creek Systems, Inc.
Tony Wilson
(925) 273-9896
12/19/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
4.0 - Markups and Fess for Changes in the Work - Additional Self-Performed Work - Overhead & 
Profit (in percent):
4.1 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Additional Second Tier Subcontractor Work - 
Overhead & Profit (in percent): 
4.2 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Deductive Self-Performed Work - Overhead & Profit 
(in percent): 
4.3 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Deductive Second Tier Subcontractor Work - 
Overhead & Profit (in percent): 
5.0 - MBE/WBE Participation - Amount of participation by certified firms included in net bid (100% 
if bidder is certified) represented by percentage: 
5.1 - MBE/WBE Participation - Amount of participation by Certified Firms included in net bid (2nd, 
3rd Tier Subcontractors/Suppliers) represented by percentage: 
5.2 - MBE/WBE Participation - Dollar Value of participation included in Net Bid: 
2.11 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit J - City of San Mateo Business 
cooperation/Use tax enhancement program and any exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of 
 
this Bid Form.
2.12 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit K - City of San Mateo Contractors 
 
Ques8onnaire and any excep8ons have been listed in Ques8on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
235 of 574

--- page 236 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
2/26/2020
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3123 - Groundwater and Storm Water Treatment System
$539,115.09
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
Clear Creek Systems, Inc.
Tony Wilson
(925) 273-9896
12/19/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
2.13 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit L - San Mateo WWTP - BAAQMD Scope 
requirements - Basic construction mitigation measures and any exceptions have been listed in 
 
Ques8on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.14 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit M - Prevailing Wages and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques8on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.15 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit N - Lean Construction and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques8on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.16 - Bidder certifies that they have included all required spare parts, training, submittals, O&M 
manuals, shop drawings and installation checks, etc. as listed in the Specifications. Any exceptions 
 
shall be listed in Ques8on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.17 - Bidder certifies that the price listed on this Bid Form is a firm price through the final delivery 
of the equipment/materials proposed herein, and that no material escalations will be accepted as 
part of any subsequent Agreement. Any exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of this Bid 
 
Form.
2.18 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, the Bidder confirms that they are in agreement 
with, understand, and have included any additional costs that may be associated with providing all 
 
warran8es as stated within the Bidding Documents including applicable Speciﬁca8ons.
2.19 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder acknowledges that a complete 
SUBCONTRACTOR QUALIFICATION FORM, and its associated requirements, must be complete 
before Sundt will consider issuing a Subcontract. Please contact Andre Castaneda at 480-293-3130, 
 
acastaneda@sundt.com to validate your company’s prequaliﬁca8on status.
Code Scope 
Service provider will ensure all personnel are experienced and qualified to complete the Work. 
Service provider will also ensure that all employees are legally able to work on the Project Site.  
Service provider shall supplement construction labor immediately if the Work falls behind the 
agreed upon schedule at Service Provider's expense.  
All training required to meet manufacturers or industry standards is to be included including any 
trade qualifications required.  
236 of 574

--- page 237 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
2/26/2020
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3123 - Groundwater and Storm Water Treatment System
$539,115.09
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
Clear Creek Systems, Inc.
Tony Wilson
(925) 273-9896
12/19/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
Perform all work in accordance with plans, specifications and all applicable local, state and federal 
codes and standards. 
Service provider will adhere to all requirements of Sundt’s site specific and standard safety policies 
without exception. 
the intended work activities.  Service provider equipment is subject to inspection at the discretion 
of the CMAR.  Equipment that does not conform to the National, State, Local and Site requirements 
and manufacturer specifications shall be promptly repaired or replaced with equipment acceptable 
to CMAR without additional cost to the CMAR and without delay to the schedule.
Equipment shall be properly maintained and be free of oil, fuel or chemical leaks.  Containment 
and protection against leaks and spills will be installed in accordance with local and state 
requirements.  Service Provider shall immediately report, clean and properly dispose of any oils, 
fuels, or chemicals spilled onto the project site, including any spill contaminated soils.
Lean Pull Planning Sessions, 6 weeks look ahead meetings (held weekly) and other meetings as 
required to ensure accuracy and completeness of Sundt Construction Schedule.  Service provider 
shall attend other meetings as required to coordinate, plan or otherwise participate with project 
teams.
pertains to their Work. Project specific SWPPP requires Best Management Practices (BMPs) to be in 
place prior to any excavation. BMP coordination is the responsibility of the Service provider. Service 
provider shall protect all SWPPP BMP installations from damage and repair any damage to BMPs 
caused by Service provider’s actions.
Cleanup of work area to be completed daily. Service provider is required to maintain a neat and 
orderly work area free of debris. 
similar to the WBS as shown on the bid breakdown.  Scope progress and payment progress will be 
based on rules of credit developed in conjunction with Sundt upon award of contract.  Upon award 
Service provider will provide adequate cost breakdown as required to fill out progress tracking 
reports.
greatest extent possible, “local” labor.  Upon award, the selected Service Provider for this scope of 
work will provide a local labor hire plan for review and approval.  Local hire plan will demonstrate 
good faith effort and best practices for hiring of local labor.  “Local” is considered to include all 
localities within the 9 bay area counties.
237 of 574

--- page 238 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
2/26/2020
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3123 - Groundwater and Storm Water Treatment System
$539,115.09
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
Clear Creek Systems, Inc.
Tony Wilson
(925) 273-9896
12/19/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
Project Specific - The City of San Mateo is considering implementation of a Project Labor 
Agreement (PLA) on the project.  Should the City of San Mateo decide to implement the PLA, 
Service Provider will be allowed to review PLA terms and provide any cost adjustments needed.
Project Specific -  The Project is subject to Prevailing Wage Rates and Certified Payrolls.  Service 
Provider will adhere to all requirements of the California Department of Industrial Relations.  See 
Exhibit N_Prevailing Wages and Attachment 1_Sample Agreements for additional direction.
Project Specific - This project is pursuing WIFIA funding.  Service provider will review and include 
applicable WIFIA funding requirements including, but not limited to, American Iron & Steel 
requirements.  In addition, WIFIA requires that the project includes Davis Bacon Labor 
requirements.  Service provider will review Prevailing Wage and Davis Bacon Labor and include the 
more stringent of the two.  WIFIA funding requirements can be found here: 
Project Specific - Design the appropriate groundwater and stormwater treatment system to meet 
the permit requirements for discharge to the bay. Please reference Exhibit O for dewatering system 
preliminary design, permit requirements and system layout.
Project Specific - The site has limited space available and the space allocated to the treatment 
system is also limited. Bidder will review site layout drawing and provide a detailed treatment 
system layout drawing to accommodate limited space. Layout drawing to be provided with bid.
permit documents and are included in the bidding package. Bidders are to review these documents 
and provide any mark-ups to show deviations of proposed treatment system from the proposed 
system provided in the permit documents. If no mark-ups are provided it is assumed that bidder 
will provide a system equal to what is described in the permit documents.
Project Specific - Furnish and install the proposed treatment system including treatment facility 
and piping from treatment system to proposed discharge point.
Project Specific - Bidder is responsible to ensure that the proposed system meets or exceeds the 
regulatory permit requirements.
Project Specific - Maintain and operate the proposed treatment system until excavated areas are 
ready for backfill (approximately 2 years, see schedule). 
238 of 574

--- page 239 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
2/26/2020
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3123 - Groundwater and Storm Water Treatment System
$539,115.09
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
Clear Creek Systems, Inc.
Tony Wilson
(925) 273-9896
12/19/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
Item Description
UOM
Quantity
$ Unit Price
$ Total
Lease/Operation/Maintenance/Regulatory of Ground Water 
Treatment System per Provided Design
LS
1
$479,415.00
$479,415.00
Maintain and monitor system per specs
LS
1
$15,186.00
$15,186.00
Taxes
LS
1
$44,514.09
$44,514.09
Project Specific - The stormwater pre-treatment system requires manual operation with operators 
required to be onsite as needed. 
Project Specific - Proposed groundwater and stormwater system should be provided with level 
sensors, alarms and offsite monitoring to ensure timely response. 
Bid Breakdown
Project Specific - Monitor the integrity and operation of the treatment system for the duration of 
the project. 
Project Specific - This project has a liquidated damages clause listed in Section 6.6 of the Prime 
Contract based on the Substantial Complete date set at $5,000 per day.  The Substantial Complete 
date is will be finalized upon approval of the GMP2 Baseline Schedule as noted in 6.2.1.  Please 
refer to the preliminary schedule (bidding document Exhibit C). 
Yes
239 of 574

--- page 240 ---
4101 Union Ave, Bakersfield, CA 93305 (661) 324-9634 Fax (661) 322-4206 www.clearcreeksystems.com Contractors Lic. # 952063  
March 20, 2019 
 
Sundt Construction, Inc. 
2620 S. 55th Street 
Tempe, AZ 85282 
Attn: Doug Lenz 
 
RE: San Mateo Waste Water Treatment. 
 
Dear: Mr. Lenz, 
Clear Creek Systems, Inc. (CCS) is pleased to submit this proposal for water treatment services 
on the San Mateo WWTP, Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow Management Upgrade and 
Expansion Project. 
 
Task1: 
Ground Water Treatment Proposal for 300gpm Range Sediment and VOC filtration system in 
support of Site Dewatering System. (Capable of up to 500gpm with additional tanks (2),  VOC 
media and vessels (6), and pump increase.) 
 
Task 1 Outline: 
 The system is designed to treat ground water during site dewatering, and construction activities. 
Water from the dewatering wells will be collected and transferred through a series of 18,000gal 
treatment tanks for gravity settling and batch filtration through sand filters, for the reduction of 
suspended sediments followed by treatment through Nine (9) VCC GAC media vessels in a lead 
/ lag /lag configuration for removal of VOC’s. Effluent water will be conveyed to the point of 
discharge.  
 
Task2: 
Pre-treatment Proposal for 200gpm Range pre-filtration system in support of storm water and 
sump dewatering operations. (Additional Storage Tanks Listed as Add Option) 
  
Task 2 Outline: 
The system will be designed to collect water in a series of holding tanks (2) prior to polymer 
dosing during transfer to a gravity settling tank prior to being introduced into the primary 
treatment system (See Task1). 
Note: Water Treatment Operator Required for Chemical Dosing. 
 
This proposal assumes that dewatering wells / sumps and conveyance to the treatment system 
will be provided by others. 
Note: High water shut-off valve and auto notification system for system safety are included 
in the base bid SOW. 
Additional components for system safety, labor, and consumables listed as option. 
If you would like an alternate scope of work, please let us know. 
240 of 574

--- page 241 ---
4101 Union Ave, Bakersfield, CA 93305 (661) 324-9634 Fax (661) 322-4206 www.clearcreeksystems.com Contractors Lic. # 952063  
PROPOSED SCOPE OF WORK INCLUDED 
(EITHER AS INCLUDED COMPONENT OR OPTION) 
 
TASK 1: 
 
1. 300GPM Range Sediment / VOC Filtration System Equipment: 
Monthly Equipment Rental  
 
 
 
          $15,970.00 /month 
(Based upon 30-day monthly billing cycle) 
• Three (3) 20,000gal. Settling/Filtration Tanks   
• One (1) CCS SF-300DP Sand Media Filter…….………………. (115v/1phase/20a) 
• Nine (9) CM-72 HPV GAC Media Vessels (Lead / Lag / Lag Vessels) 
• Two (2) Filtration Booster Pumps w/Auto Control Panels………. (15hp/460v/3ph/40a)  
• One (1) Filtration Transfer Pump w/ Auto Control………………. (2hp/460v/1ph/10a) 
• Internal System Manifold. (Pipe, Hose, Valves, and Fittings) 
• Three (3) System Flow Meters 
• High Water Influent Automatic Shutoff Valve Control……………(115v/1ph/10a) 
• Cellular Auto Notification Alarm System…………………………. (115v/1ph/5a)  
• 100’ of 6” Discharge Piping (estimated) 
 
Temporary Power System Add Option: 
• 45 Generator w/spill Guard Containment Berm (3rd Shift) $3,585.00/month 
• Generator Fuel Consumption – 4gal/hr. 
 
 
$300.00/day (Estimate) 
• Extended Run Fuel Cell 
 
 
 
 
$500.00/month 
• Generator Service (200hr. Interval)  
 
 
$1,500.00/month 
 
 
2. Mobilization: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       $81,395.00 / Lump Sum 
• Transportation of all equipment to the site 
• Labor to setup the system 
• Initial load of Sand Filter Media 
• Initial load VOC Media (CCS-400 Organo-Clay Media Blend (27,000lbs. Total)) 
• System Startup (10hrs included in base bid) 
• Reach Lift for Equipment and Materials Handling (Mobilization) 
 
 
3. Demobilization:  
 
 
 
 
 
       $36,800.00 / Lump Sum 
• Transportation of all the equipment away from the site 
• Labor to breakdown the system  
• Spent GAC Media Sample and Profile  
• Vacuum and Disposal of Non-Hazardous Moveable Spent VOC Media 
• Reach Lift for Equipment and Materials Handling (Demobilization) 
241 of 574

--- page 242 ---
4101 Union Ave, Bakersfield, CA 93305 (661) 324-9634 Fax (661) 322-4206 www.clearcreeksystems.com Contractors Lic. # 952063  
• Tank Cleaning Option: (Budget Estimate Listed Under Optional Equipment and Service) 
4. System Monitoring / Maintenance: 
• Weekly Inspection and VOC Media Backwash Recommended.  
$680.00/week     
Note: WTO may perform these tasks during CESF Pre-Treatment Operations. 
                                                                                              
Replacement VOC Consumables:   
HS-250 Organo-Clay Media (3,000lbs/vessel increase or replace)  
 2.65/lb. (+tax) * 
*Media pricing is for turnkey service and includes vacuum of loose Moveable media, and  
non-hazardous disposal. 
 
 
 
VOC Media Change Out Recommended Budget Estimate: 
HS-250 Organo-Clay Media  (4 x Lead Vessel Changes)  
 
$108,000 Budget 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
242 of 574

--- page 243 ---
4101 Union Ave, Bakersfield, CA 93305 (661) 324-9634 Fax (661) 322-4206 www.clearcreeksystems.com Contractors Lic. # 952063  
 
Task 2: 
Note: Requires System Operator 
 
1a. 200GPM Range CESF Pre-Filtration System Equipment: 
Monthly Equipment Rental  
 
 
 
       $12,600.00 /month 
(Based upon 30-day monthly billing cycle) 
• Three (3) 20,000gal. Batch Tanks   
• One (1) CESF Monitoring/Control Module 
• One (1) SF-150DP Sand Media Filter 
• One (1) Filtration Transfer Pump w/Auto Control Panel………. (5hp/460v/3ph/20a) 
• One (1) Filtration Booster Pump w/Auto Control Panels………. (10hp/460v/3ph/40a)  
• Polymer Metering System………………………………………...(115v/1ph/10a) 
• Internal System Manifold. (Pipe, Hose, Valves, and Fittings) 
• System Flow Meters w/Totalizer 
• 100’ of 6” Discharge Piping (estimated) 
 
 
2a. Mobilization: 
      $15,625.00 / Lump Sum 
• Transportation of all equipment to the site 
• Labor to setup the system 
• Initial Tote of Floc-Clear Bio-Polymer (285gal Tote / 2% Solution) 
• System Startup (10hrs included in base bid) 
• Reach Lift for Equipment and Materials Handling (Included with Task1) 
 
 
3a. Demobilization: 
      $8,730.00 / Lump Sum 
• Transportation of all the equipment away from the site 
• Labor to breakdown the system  
• Tank Cleaning Option: (Budget Estimate Listed Under Optional Equipment and Service) 
• Reach Lift for Equipment and Materials Handling (Included with Task1) 
 
 
4a.  Pre-Filtration operational labor rate schedule: (Prevailing Wage) 
                               
                               Regular:                         Overtime:                   Double Time: 
 
Labor                      $75.00                                $112.50                          
$150.00 
Supervisor              $95.00                                $142.50 
 
 
$190.00 
Note: 
243 of 574

--- page 244 ---
4101 Union Ave, Bakersfield, CA 93305 (661) 324-9634 Fax (661) 322-4206 www.clearcreeksystems.com Contractors Lic. # 952063  
Single system operator will be billed at Supervisor rate above. 
 
Consumables for Pre-Filtration Operation: 
(Note: All consumable media pricing is +Tax) 
• Tote of 2% Floc-Clear Chitosan Polymer (275-gal Tote) 
 
$2,775.00ea. 
• Co2 Dewar (for pH adjustment if required)                                       $685.00ea.                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
Estimate for Bid Purpose: 
$12,470.00 Budget 
 
 
      Note: Permit Fees, Engineering Documents, and Reporting    $ Excluded           
           (Client is responsible for all permits/fees) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Equipment, Service, and Labor Schedule as Options:  
 
Optional Equipment: 
45 KVA Backup Power with Auto Transfer Switch  
 
$2,575.00/monthly cycle 
Generator Containment Berm  
 
 
 
 
$280.00/monthly cycle 
Additional CM-72 GAC Media Vessels (2 vessels per 100gpm) 
$900.00/monthly cycle  
System Booster Pumps as Backup 
 
 
 
 
$950.00/monthly cycle 
Sump Dewatering Pump System (Requires Gravel Annulus) 
$700.00ea./monthly cycle 
Additional Piping to and from Treatment Area 
 
            $300.00 per 100’/monthly 
Additional 20,000gal System Tanks                                                  $960.00/monthly cycle 
Additional Mobilization 
 
 
 
 
 
$650.00/Each Load 
Additional Demobilization 
  
 
 
 
 
$650.00/Each Load 
Tank Cleaning Service (Budget Estimate)  
 
 
$2,800.00/Each Tank 
 
 
Additional Monitoring or operational needs labor rate schedule: (Prevailing Wage) 
                               
                               Regular:                         Overtime:                   Double Time: 
 
Labor                      $75.00                                $112.50                       $130.00 
Supervisor              $95.00                                $142.50 
 
    $170.00 
Manager                 $115.00                              $172.50                       $230.00 
 
 
 
 
244 of 574

--- page 245 ---
4101 Union Ave, Bakersfield, CA 93305 (661) 324-9634 Fax (661) 322-4206 www.clearcreeksystems.com Contractors Lic. # 952063  
 
The above equipment designs are based upon our experience with similar types of 
contaminants and/or operations, but without a pilot test it is impossible to guarantee field 
performance and lifespan of media. When conducted, pilot tests only indicate performance 
under a specific set of conditions. Changes in field conditions or operating parameters can 
alter field performance.  Actual water treatment rates and efficiencies will depend upon the 
influent water quality. 
                                                                                            
We look forward to working with you and would like to thank you for the opportunity to bid on 
this project. 
Please do not hesitate to contact me with any questions you may have.   
My cell phone is (408) 693-7279. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
Tony Wilson 
Regional Project Coordinator 
Clear Creek Systems, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
245 of 574

--- page 246 ---
4101 Union Ave, Bakersfield, CA 93305 (661) 324-9634 Fax (661) 322-4206 www.clearcreeksystems.com Contractors Lic. # 952063  
 
 
QUALIFICATIONS 
 
1. The client is responsible for determining the necessary flow rates, storage capacity and number of 
settling/storage/pretreatment tanks necessary to meet their project needs.  
2. Permits, easements, permission to encroach, etc. unless otherwise stated will be the responsibility of the client. 
3. This proposal is valid for 60 days. 
4. Equipment is subject to availability at time of order. 
5. This proposal includes work M-F, 10hr work window. 
6. This system is designed solely to reduce sediment and VOC’s. Unless specifically included in the scope of work 
above, any other contaminants are beyond the scope of the proposal and therefore not included.   
7. All requests for additional work to be performed must be submitted in writing. 
8. If temporary power generation or self-powered pumps are required, the rates for generators and diesel pumps 
are based upon single shift rates of an average of up to 40 hours per week.  If the generator or pumps averages 
between 40 and 80 hours per week, then the rate is 1.5 times the listed rate.  If the generator averages more than 
80 hours per week, then the rate is 2.0 times the listed rate.  Servicing generators and diesel pumps is not 
included in this proposal. Metered equipment service needs to be performed every 200 hours of operation.      
9. The client is responsible to provide fuel and service to power generation equipment for operations.  CCS can 
provide these services if requested to do so at a rate of cost plus 15%. 
10. Access and egress for vehicles, and equipment normally used in these types of operations will be available to 
the area.   
11. CCS personnel will have unrestricted access to and from our area of operation during mobilization, normal 
operating conditions, and demobilization.  Delays in access will be an additional cost. 
12. CCS personnel can monitor the system or train your designated personnel to do so.   
13. While there is flexibility in equipment layout, there will be sufficient room for surge/settling tanks, or basins, 
and filtration equipment.  
14. If tanks are used instead of basins, they must be cleaned prior to return.  If the client wants CCS to provide this 
work, a quote can be generated as the project nears completion and an idea of the cleaning requirements is 
available. TANK CLEANING IS NOT INCLUDED IN THIS PROPOSAL. 
15. The client is responsible for disposal of sludge, sand filter media, and used filter elements.  
16. Replacement consumables are FOB Livermore, CA and listed prices do not include applicable taxes or delivery 
charges. 
17. Equipment rates do not include freeze protection.    
18. Settlement monitoring and damages caused by settlement are excluded. 
19. Restoration of work zones is excluded. 
20. Obstructions, excavation and demolition operations are excluded. 
21. Testing, handling, removal, disposal, etc. of hazardous materials are excluded. 
22. Power required to operate dewatering system is excluded. 
23. Surveying, layout, control, settlement monitoring, and “As-Built” drawings are excluded. 
24. Traffic control, flaggers, barricades, etc. are not included. 
25. Water (costs associated with hydrant-use fees or permits), or disposal are not included. 
26. Temporary erosion and sediment control measures are excluded. 
27. Location, potholing, protection, repairs, and/or relocation of existing utilities is excluded. 
28. There will be no retention or bond requirements on our part. 
29. Our current insurance levels are sufficient for this project:  $2,000,000 GL per event and aggregate; $1,000,000 
Auto; and $1,000,000 Workers Comp. We also have a $5million dollar umbrella. 
30. No warranties about the suitability of this proposal for this project without a pilot test are being made.   
   
 
246 of 574

--- page 247 ---
4101 Union Ave, Bakersfield, CA 93305 (661) 324-9634 Fax (661) 322-4206 www.clearcreeksystems.com Contractors Lic. # 952063  
      TERMS and CONDITIONS 
 
 
 
 
                EXHIBIT #1 
 
This proposal is subject to the inclusions of the following Terms and Conditions being incorporated into 
any Contract/Subcontract Agreement. These Terms and Conditions will control in the event of any 
inconsistency between the terms of this proposal and any subsequent agreement. 
 
This document contains our terms and conditions for rental and of equipment, materials, parts, and service.   
 
1. 
Billing:  Billing for rental of equipment will be monthly on the rental agreement date until termination of rental; billing for service—
including mobilization, setup, demobilization, technician services, and transportation—will be upon rendering of service; billing for sales of 
consumables or replacement parts will be as provided.  Unless specified otherwise in the proposal, all billings are due 30 days from the date of 
Clear Creek Systems, Inc. (CCS) invoice, a Finance Charge at the rate of 1.5% per month, (18% annual rate) will be added to amounts not paid 
when due.  CCS will not accept “pay when paid” or “paid if paid” payment terms.  Rental begins when the equipment leaves CCS’s facility and 
ends when equipment is returned.   Unless stated otherwise, two weeks’ notice is required for demobilization of treatment systems. 
2. 
Operating Schedule:  A monthly rental rate is based upon a 28-day rental cycle.  Unless stated otherwise, a week is one third of a 
monthly billing cycle and a day is one third of a weekly billing rate.  The rates for generators and diesel pumps are based upon single shift rates 
of an average of up to 40 hours per week.  If the generator or pump averages between 40 and 80 hours per week, then the rate is 1.5 times the 
listed rate.  If the generator or pump averages more than 80 hours per week, then the rate is 2.0 times the listed rate.  Servicing generators and 
diesel pumps is not included in this proposal.  They need to be serviced every 150 hours of operation.  We will provide this service at cost plus 
15% profit if requested to do so. 
3. 
Equipment Supply:  Unless stated otherwise in the proposal scope of work, the quoted rates do not include electrical connections to 
the equipment, electrical power supply, for the equipment, internal piping between the equipment components, piping to and from the equipment, 
or equipment to off load and load the equipment at the site such as forklifts or cranes.  The equipment will be returned to CCS in the same 
condition less normal wear and tear and at least as clean as delivered to the Rentee.  The Rentee is responsible for the removal and proper 
disposal of all media, solids, filters, water and decontamination as needed unless specified otherwise in the proposal.  Equipment not properly 
cleaned or damaged will remain on rent until it is properly cleaned and/or repaired. In addition, labor rates will apply to clean or recondition 
equipment to a serviceable condition.  Equipment is subject to availability at the time of the order.  Any requests to hold material will be done 
with the rent starting on the date of the request to hold the equipment.  The Rentee is responsible to provide an acceptable pad base and size for 
the equipment and access for the types of vehicles and equipment normally used in these types of operations.  Unless specifically stated in the 
proposal, freeze protection for equipment is EXCLUDED from all pricing and proposals. 
4. 
Service: CCS will furnish a technical representative to monitor the equipment if it is requested to do so.  Labor billing is portal to 
portal, including mileage, from the designated CCS facility. Saturday work and work over 8 hours per weekday or past normal work hours if not 
scheduled in advance will be billed at 1.5 times the regular labor rate for that person.  Sunday, holiday, work past 12 hours on a weekday or 8 
hours on a Saturday will be billed at 2.0 times the regular labor rate for that person.  Per diems will be applicable for all personnel traveling 
outside of their standard service areas at our standard per diem rates unless other rates are listed in the proposal.  All travel costs such as air fare, 
hotels, and rental cars will be billed at cost plus 15%.  Labor will be billed at our current labor rates at the time of the proposal unless other rates 
are provided in the proposal.  Labor rates are subject to change annually or when prevailing rates and/or union rates change, if applicable.  
Equipment technicians provided by CCS for monitoring are not considered a covered trade for prevailing wage, union staffing requirements, or 
certified payroll unless otherwise stated in the proposal.  CCS must be informed of any applicable prevailing wage, union, and/or certified payroll 
requirements in writing prior to the preparation of the proposal.  If proper notification of union workers, prevailing wages, and/or certified payroll 
is not provided our listed rates including mobilization, monitoring and demobilization are subject to change to reflect the additional costs.   
5. 
Client Operations:  If Rentee elects to provide their own equipment technician(s), the Rentee; 1.  is responsible for operating the 
equipment in accordance with the Operation & Maintenance manuals (O & M manuals) for the equipment—including but not limited to any 
operating parameters; 2. Shall monitor, inspect, maintain, and keep adequate records as per the O & M manuals and any inspection and/or 
maintenance logs provided by CCS; 3. Replace any normal wear items at their own costs for the parts and labor.  Examples of normal wear items 
include pH sensor probes, grease and lubricating oils, pump impellers, and oil filters.  If the Rentee elects to provide equipment technicians, CCS 
reserves the right to send its technicians to the site to review equipment operations and maintenance practices.  Such site visits will be conducted 
at CCS’s costs if not part of a service agreement, and in no way relieve the Rentee from their responsibility to operate and maintain the equipment 
as per the O & M manuals.   
6. 
Materials:  All filtration media and/or consumable items such as polymer and filter bags or cartridges are sold on a no return/no 
refund basis.  Any agreement to take back any unused materials must be agreed to in writing prior to the time of proposal acceptance/agreement 
including material condition requirements and any restocking fees. 
7. 
Site Access:  CCS personnel will have unrestricted access to and from our area of operation during, monitoring, mobilization, and 
demobilization.  If there are any safety training requirements that are greater than one half hour for each person and notice of the safety 
requirements are not provided prior to the proposal, additional time for safety training will be an additional charge at the personnel labor rate and 
category for the project.   
8. 
Warranty:  CCS warrants that the equipment leased hereunder, when properly used and maintained, shall be free from defects of 
material and workmanship.  THE FOREGOING IS THE EXCLUSIVE WARRANTY GIVEN BY CCS TO RENTEE WITH RESPECT 
TO THE CONDITION AND OPERATION OF THE EQUIPMENT AND IS IN LIEU OF ALL OTHER WARRANTIES EXPRESS OR 
IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS 
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, IN NO EVENT WILL CCS BE LIABLE FOR ANY INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
247 of 574

--- page 248 ---
4101 Union Ave, Bakersfield, CA 93305 (661) 324-9634 Fax (661) 322-4206 www.clearcreeksystems.com Contractors Lic. # 952063  
DAMAGES, WITH THE ONLY EXCEPTION BEING FOR THE NEGELENT ACTIONS OF CCS’S MONITORING PERSONNEL 
THAT RESULT IN ANY REGULATORY FINES DUE TO UNAUTHORIZED DISCHARGES UNDER CCS’S CONTROL AND 
THEN THE LIABILITY WILL BE LIMITED TO AMOUNT OF THE FINE MULTIPLIED BY THE PERCENTAGE 
RESPONSIBILITY OF CCC’S MONITORING PERSONNEL’S FOR THE FINES.  Upon termination of this agreement due to breach 
hereof by Rentee, this warranty shall thereupon become void and of no further force and effect.  CCS shall be allowed reasonable time to make 
any necessary repairs due to equipment failure covered in this section.  The Rentee has the option of renting backup components to avoid any 
potential downtime due to equipment failure if such an equipment failure could cause material delays or other issues for the Rentee.   
9. 
Risk of Loss/Return:  Rentee will purchase at CCS’s standard sales prices then in effect any equipment not returned within (7) days 
of the termination of the rental.  Rentee assumes and shall bear the entire risk of loss and damage to the equipment from any and every cause 
whatsoever, normal wear and tear excepted.  In the event of loss or damage to the equipment, Rentee, at the option of CCS, shall: (a) pay to CCS 
the cost of placing the equipment in good repair, condition and working order, or (b) pay to CCS its standard sales price then in effect for such 
equipment.  On such payment, this rental agreement shall terminate with respect to such items of equipment so paid for and Rentee shall become 
entitled to such equipment in its as-in-condition without any warranty, express, implied, or statutory, with respect to any matter whatsoever. 
10. 
Indemnification:  Rentee will indemnify CCS and hold CCS harmless from any liability, damage, expense or judgment arising from 
injury to any person or damage to any property caused by the equipment arising from Rentee’s possession use or operation of the equipment or 
arising from any failure of Rentee to perform any covenant condition or term of this rental agreement to be performed by Rentee.  The 
indemnities and assumptions of liability by Rentee in this paragraph shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding the termination of the 
Lease Agreement; whether by expiration by the term or otherwise.  CCS shall give the Rentee notice of any claim or liability herby indemnified 
against, and Rentee shall be entitled to control the defense thereof; in this regard, Rentee agrees to furnish legal counsel to CCS to defend against 
any such claim or liability herby indemnified against.  Rentee is required to give CCS immediate notice of litigation initiated against Rentee or 
any of its agents, servants, employees or assigns, involving the equipment rented hereunder. 
11. 
Personal Property; Unless and until Rentee purchases the equipment pursuant to paragraph 6, the equipment will remain CCS’s 
personal property at all times, irrespective of its location or attachment to real estate and may be removed by CCS at any time after termination of 
this rental agreement.  Rentee will maintain on the equipment at all times signs provided by CCS showing that CCS is the owner thereof and will 
keep such equipment free and clear from all levies, liens, encumbrances and other claims of its creditors or other persons asserting claims against 
Rentee.  Rentee shall execute and deliver to CCS upon CCS’s request a statement in respect of the equipment, in a form satisfactory to CCS, 
setting forth CCS’s and Rentee’s respective interests therein.  CCS may file either this rental agreement or such statement in the appropriate 
governmental office for purposes of giving notice to the public of CCS’s and Rentee’s respective interests in the equipment. 
12. 
Cancellation and Termination:  This rental agreement may be terminated by CCS at any time and upon such termination CCS may 
take possession of and remove all equipment.  Upon cancellation or termination of this contract under the terms hereof, all obligation that are still 
executory on both sides are discharged, but any right of CCS based on prior default or performance of Rentee survive, and CCS shall also retain 
all remedies for default of the whole rental agreement or any unperformed and/or unpaid balances. 
13. 
Law:  All questions concerning the validity and operation of this rental agreement and performance of the obligations imposed upon 
the parties hereunder shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, U.S.A. 
14. 
Taxes:  Rentee shell keep the equipment free and clear of all levies, liens and encumbrances and, for the term of this agreement, shall 
pay all licenses, fees, registration fees, assessments, charges and taxes (municipal, state and federal), which may now or hereafter be imposed 
upon the equipment; provided however, that the termination of this rental agreement by reason of Rentee’s default hereunder shall not excuse 
Rentee from any of Rentee’s obligations under this rental agreement, including but not limited to the obligations of Rentee under this paragraph.  
Unless specifically stated otherwise in the proposal, prices do not include any applicable sales/use taxes, HST or GST.  Any applicable sales/use 
taxes will be an additional amount added to invoices unless a valid reseller’s certificate is provided to CCS prior to invoicing. 
15. 
Insurance:  Rentee shall provide and maintain insurance against loss, theft, damage or destruction of the equipment in an amount 
sufficient to replace any equipment leased or rented at full replacement value with blanket coverage, with loss payable to CCS and its successors 
or assigns.  Such insurance shall not be invalidated by any act, omission or neglect of Rentee.  CCS must be named as Loss Payee with respect to 
rented, leased, or borrowed equipment.  Rentee shall promptly furnish proof of such insurance to CCS.  This proposal is based upon our existing 
insurance terms and amounts being sufficient for the project.  If any additional levels of insurance (including L&I) or Owner Controlled 
Insurance Program (OCIP) or WRAP insurance are required, then the costs for the additional insurance or administrative compliance will be an 
additional cost to the Rentee. 
16. 
Retention or Bonding:  Proposals exclude retention.  If retention is deducted from invoices, then the prices and invoices will be 
increased by an equal amount of the retention.  At the end of the project, the outstanding retention amount will then be credited to the Rentee 
when all other bills have been satisfactorily paid.  CCS will not provide any bonding. 
17. 
Controlling Terms:  This proposal excludes any terms of Master Contract Agreements between the Rentee and their clients.  If there 
are any conflicts between a Master Agreement and these Terms and Conditions, then these CCS Terms and Conditions will take precedence.  
CCS will not accept settlements negotiated or change orders negotiated by Rentee with others or unilaterally determined by Rentee nor will CCS 
be required to Rentee or Rentee’s clients (or other entities) decisions if CCS does not agree to them in writing prior to any negotiation. 
18. 
Payments by CCS:  In the event Rentee fails to procure or maintain Insurance or fees, assessments, charges and taxes, all as 
hereinbefore specified, CCS shall have the right, but shall not be obligated, to effect such insurance, or pay such fees and assessments, charges 
and taxes, as the case may be and in such event, the cost thereof shall be repaid by Rentee to CCS with the next ensuing installment of rental 
coming due hereunder.  Rentee’s failure to promptly repay CCS shall carry with it the same consequence, including interest at the highest legal 
rate, as a failure to pay any installment of rent hereunder. 
19. 
Remedies:  No right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to CCS is exclusive of any other right or remedy herein, or by law 
or equity provided or permitted; but each shall be cumulative of every other right or remedy given to CCS. 
20. 
Assignment: Without the prior written consent of CCS first obtained, Rentee shall not (a) assign, transfer or pledge (i) this lease, or 
(ii) the equipment or any part subject of this lease, or (iii) any interest in this lease or the equipment subject hereof; nor shall Rentee sublet or lend 
the equipment or any part hereof, or permit the equipment or any part thereof to be used by anyone other than Rentee or Rentee’s employees. 
248 of 574

--- page 249 ---
4101 Union Ave, Bakersfield, CA 93305 (661) 324-9634 Fax (661) 322-4206 www.clearcreeksystems.com Contractors Lic. # 952063  
21. 
Modification:  This instrument constitutes the entire agreement between CCS and Rentee and shall not be modified, amended altered, 
or changed except by a written agreement first signed by the parties hereto.  Waiver by CCS of any provisions hereof in one or more instances 
shall no waiver as to any other instance. 
22. 
Limitations / Time to Bring Suit:  Rentee must bring any cause of action for the breach of this agreement by CCS within one year 
from the date the cause of action accrued. 
23. 
Default:  If Rentee with regard to any item or items of equipment fails to pay any rent or other amount herein provided with fifteen 
(15) days after the same is due and payable, or if Rentee with regard to any item or items of equipment fails to observe, keep or perform any other 
provision of this contract required to be observed, kept or performed by Rentee, CCS, in addition to any other remedies provided by law, shall 
have the right to exercise any one or more of the following remedies: 
a. 
Declare the entire amount of rent hereunder immediately due and payable as to any or all items of equipment, without notice or 
demand to Rentee; and/or 
b. 
Sue for and recover all rents, and other payments, then accrued or thereafter accruing, with respect to any or all items of equipment: 
and/or 
c. 
Take possession of any or all items of equipment, without demand or notice, wherever same may be located, without any court order 
or other process of law; in this regard Rentee authorizes CCS, its agents, servants, employees and assignees, to enter upon the premises of Rentee 
for the purpose of taking possession of such equipment.  Rentee hereby waives any and all damages occasioned by such taking of possession.  
Any said taking of possession shall not constitute a termination of this lease as to Rentee’s obligations and liabilities as to any or all items of 
equipment unless CCS expressly so notifies Rentee in writing; and/or 
d. 
Terminate this lease as to any or all items of equipment; and/or 
e. 
Pursue any other remedy at law or in equity 
Notwithstanding any repossession, or any other action which CCS may take, Rentee shall be and remain liable for the full performance of all 
obligations on the part of Rentee to be performed under this rental agreement. 
 
249 of 574

--- page 250 ---
San Jose, CA 95110

WSP USA
2025 Gateway Place
Suite 348

Tel.:+1 408 453-6100
Fax: +1 408 453-0496
wsp.com

VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL
February 26, 2019

Douglas Lenz

Sundt Construction, Inc.
2620 S. 55" St.

Tempe, Arizona 85282

Re: Cost Estimate C — Ongoing System Operation, Compliance Monitoring, Reporting
San Mateo Wastewater Treatment Plant Facility, San Mateo, CA

Dear Mr. Lenz:

Pursuant to your request, WSP USA, Inc. (WSP) is pleased to provide Sundt Construction, Inc. (Sundt)
with this cost estimate to provide groundwater characterization services and engineering services in
support of dewatering operations at the San Mateo Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) in San Mateo,
California (the “Site”). It is our understanding that Sundt (Client) requires groundwater characterization
as well as design, permitting and monitoring assistance for the treatment/disposal of groundwater
generated during construction dewatering operations. The construction dewatering will run continuously,
and will treat the groundwater to remove sediment, reduce turbidity and treat for petroleum hydrocarbons
(TPH) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs).

Work will be conducted in three phases:

1 Phase A — System Design and Permitting
2 Phase B — Dewatering Treatment System Startup and Initial Operation
3 Phase C — Ongoing System Operation, Compliance Monitoring, and Reporting

This cost estimate covers Phase C of work. Phase A and Phase B are discussed in separate proposals.

PHASE C —- ONGOING SYSTEM OPERATION, COMPLIANCE MONITORING,
AND REPORTING

The dewatering phase of this project is anticipated to last 3 years (36 months). WSP will perform monthly
and quarterly compliance sampling and analyses for months 3 through 36, as well as assist with

compliance issues and system operation issues. WSP will also perform monthly inspections of the system
to verify that the system is operating properly and that the correct records are being maintained.

Reporting will include semi-annual and annual self-monitoring reports, submitted for certification by the
Owner, and transmitted by WSP to the RWQCB.

250 of 574


--- page 251 ---
WS)

COST ESTIMATE

The cost of all the above-mentioned phase is listed below:

Phase C: Ongoing System Operation, $191,965
Compliance Monitoring, and Reporting (months
3 through 36)

15% Contingency (of Phase B+C) $ 33,432

Total Cost: $225,397

The total cost does not include dewatering treatment system permitting and system design, which are
included in a separate proposal under Phase A or dewatering system startup and initial operation, which
are included in a separate proposal under Phase B. A spreadsheet detailing the costs for Phase C is
attached as Table 1. In order to account for projected annual increases in WSP labor rates and laboratory
analyses rates for the work, an estimated 3% increase of the 2019 rates for each year of the project are
incorporated. Therefore, the rates for 2020 includes a 3% increase; 2021 includes a 6% increase, and
2022 includes a 9% increase from 2019.

Engineering experience suggests that 15% of monitoring and reporting costs (Phases B and C) is a
reasonable contingency. The cost of Phase B is estimated to be $30,915, as included in WSP’s Phase B
proposal. Additional contingent costs may result if compounds are found in the effluent at concentrations
greater than the effluent limits listed in the VOC and Fuel General Permit, or if violations occur and
additional sampling or receiving water sampling as well as reporting is required.

This work will be accomplished on a fee basis by phase and billed as a lump sum fee project. WSP will
invoice the Client monthly until completion of the project. The estimated monthly cost of operation under
Phase C is $6,830.22. Out of scope work will be performed only with written authorization from the
client. The work will be conducted under the supervision of a Civil Engineer registered with the State of
California.

WSP is prepared to implement the scope of work described above immediately upon your approval and
completion of contract documents. We have attached our standard contract for your review. If you have
any questions or require additional information, please do not hesitate to call.

Sincerely,
Betsy Mitton Chin Lien
California Area Manager Senior Vice President/Director of Water Services

408-878-0660

Page 2

251 of 574


--- page 252 ---
WS|)

ATTACHMENTS

Table 1
Standard Terms and Conditions

AUTHORIZATION TO PROCEED

The contents of this proposal and the attached terms and conditions have been reviewed and accepted.

The below designee authorizes WSP to proceed with the technical work proposed herein.

Print Name

Title, Company

Authorized Signature Date

252 of 574

Page 3


--- page 253 ---
WS|)

TABLES

253 of 574


--- page 254 ---
Table 1
Phase C: Ongoing System Operation, Compliance Monitoring and Reporting
San Mateo WWTP
San Mateo, California
Labor
Rate
Amount
Unit
Total
Professional Engineer
$216 
15
hours
$3,245 
Staff Engineer
$124 
108
hours
$13,349 
Labor Subtotal
$16,593 
Subcontractor
Analytical (January 2020) 
$3,232 
1
ea
$3,232 
Analytical (February 2020) 
$1,348 
1
ea
$1,348 
Analytical (March 2020)
$1,348 
1
ea
$1,348 
Analytical (April 2020)
$3,232 
1
ea
$3,232 
Analytical (May 2020)
$1,348 
1
ea
$1,348 
Analytical (June 2020)
$1,348 
2
ea
$2,697 
Subcontractor Markup (15%)
$1,981 
1
ea
$1,981 
Subcontractor Subtotal
$15,186
Expenses
Sampling Equipment
$50 
6
ea
$300 
Field Expenses
$120 
6
ea
$720 
Expenses Markup (15%)
$153 
1
ea
$153 
Expenses Subtotal
$1,173
Subtotal:
$32,953 
Labor
Rate
Amount
Unit
Total
Professional Engineer
$216 
15
hours
$3,245 
Staff Engineer
$124 
108
hours
$13,349 
Labor Subtotal
$16,593 
Subcontractor
Analytical (July 2020)
$3,232 
1
ea
$3,232 
Analytical (August 2020)
$1,348 
1
ea
$1,348 
Analytical (September 2020)
$1,348 
1
ea
$1,348 
Analytical (October 2020)
$3,232 
1
ea
$3,232 
Analytical (November 2020)
$1,348 
1
ea
$1,348 
Analytical (December 2020)
$1,348 
1
ea
$1,348 
Subcontractor Markup (15%)
$1,779 
1
ea
$1,779 
Subcontractor Subtotal
$13,636
Expenses
Sampling Equipment
$50 
6
ea
$300 
Field Expenses
$120 
6
ea
$720 
Expenses Markup (15%)
$153 
1
ea
$153 
Expenses Subtotal
$1,173
Subtotal:
$31,402 
Task C1: First Semester 2020 Monitoring and Report Preparation (includes semi-annual report)
Task C2 - Second Semester 2020 Monitoring and Report Preparation (includes semi-annual combined with 
annual report)
WSP
K:\Sundt Construction\WWTP Expansion San Mateo\Dewatering\Proposal\Phase BC\Phase BC Proposal_2019 Revisions\
Page 1 of 4
Revised: February 26, 2019
254 of 574

--- page 255 ---
Table 1
Phase C: Ongoing System Operation, Compliance Monitoring and Reporting
San Mateo WWTP
San Mateo, California
Labor
Rate
Amount
Unit
Total
Professional Engineer
$223 
15
hours
$3,339 
Staff Engineer
$127 
108
hours
$13,738 
Labor Subtotal
$17,077 
Subcontractor
Analytical (January 2021)
$3,326 
1
ea
$3,326 
Analytical (February 2021)
$1,388 
1
ea
$1,388 
Analytical (March 2021)
$1,388 
1
ea
$1,388 
Analytical (April 2021)
$3,326 
1
ea
$3,326 
Analytical (May 2021)
$1,388 
1
ea
$1,388 
Analytical (June 2021)
$1,388 
1
ea
$1,388 
Subcontractor Markup (15%)
$1,830 
1
ea
$1,830 
Subcontractor Subtotal
$14,033
Expenses
Sampling Equipment
$50 
6
ea
$300 
Field Expenses
$120 
6
ea
$720 
Expenses Markup (15%)
$153 
1
ea
$153 
Expenses Subtotal
$1,173
Subtotal:
$32,283 
Labor
Rate
Amount
Unit
Total
Professional Engineer
$223 
15
hours
$3,339 
Staff Engineer
$127 
108
hours
$13,738 
Labor Subtotal
$17,077 
Subcontractor
Analytical (July 2021)
$3,326 
1
ea
$3,326 
Analytical (August 2021)
$1,388 
1
ea
$1,388 
Analytical (September 2021)
$1,388 
1
ea
$1,388 
Analytical (October 2021)
$3,326 
1
ea
$3,326 
Analytical (November 2021)
$1,388 
1
ea
$1,388 
Analytical (December 2021)
$1,388 
1
ea
$1,388 
Subcontractor Markup (15%)
$1,830 
1
ea
$1,830 
Subcontractor Subtotal
$14,033
Expenses
Sampling Equipment
$50 
6
ea
$300 
Field Expenses
$120 
6
ea
$720 
Expenses Markup (15%)
$153 
1
ea
$153 
Expenses Subtotal
$1,173
Subtotal:
$32,283 
Task C3 - First Semester 2021 Monitoring and Report Preparation
Task C4 - Second Semester 2021 Monitoring and Report Preparation (includes semi-annual combined with 
annual report)
WSP
K:\Sundt Construction\WWTP Expansion San Mateo\Dewatering\Proposal\Phase BC\Phase BC Proposal_2019 Revisions\
Page 2 of 4
Revised: February 26, 2019
255 of 574

--- page 256 ---
Table 1
Phase C: Ongoing System Operation, Compliance Monitoring and Reporting
San Mateo WWTP
San Mateo, California
Labor
Rate
Amount
Unit
Total
Professional Engineer
$229 
15
hours
$3,434 
Staff Engineer
$131 
108
hours
$14,126 
Labor Subtotal
$17,560 
Subcontractor
Analytical (January 2022)
$3,420 
1
ea
$3,420 
Analytical (February 2022)
$1,427 
1
ea
$1,427 
Analytical (March 2022)
$1,427 
1
ea
$1,427 
Analytical (April 2022)
$3,420 
1
ea
$3,420 
Analytical (May 2022)
$1,427 
1
ea
$1,427 
Analytical (June 2022)
$1,427 
1
ea
$1,427 
Subcontractor Markup (15%)
$1,882 
1
ea
$1,882 
Subcontractor Subtotal
$14,430
Expenses
Sampling Equipment
$50 
6
ea
$300 
Field Expenses
$120 
6
ea
$720 
Expenses Markup (15%)
$153 
1
ea
$153 
Expenses Subtotal
$1,173
Subtotal:
$33,163 
Task C5 - First Semester 2022 Monitoring and Report Preparation 
WSP
K:\Sundt Construction\WWTP Expansion San Mateo\Dewatering\Proposal\Phase BC\Phase BC Proposal_2019 Revisions\
Page 3 of 4
Revised: February 26, 2019
256 of 574

--- page 257 ---
Table 1
Phase C: Ongoing System Operation, Compliance Monitoring and Reporting
San Mateo WWTP
San Mateo, California
Labor
Rate
Amount
Unit
Total
Professional Engineer
$229 
15
hours
$3,434 
Staff Engineer
$131 
108
hours
$14,126 
Labor Subtotal
$17,560 
Subcontractor
Analytical (July 2022)
$3,420 
1
ea
$3,420 
Analytical (August 2022)
$1,427 
1
ea
$1,427 
Analytical (September 2022)
$1,427 
1
ea
$1,427 
Analytical (October 2022) - 
cease dewatering after 36 
months of operation
$3,420 
1
ea
$3,420 
Subcontractor Markup (15%)
$1,454 
1
ea
$1,454 
Subcontractor Subtotal
$11,149
Expenses
Sampling Equipment
$50 
6
ea
$300 
Field Expenses
$120 
6
ea
$720 
Expenses Markup (15%)
$153 
1
ea
$153 
Expenses Subtotal
$1,173
Subtotal:
$29,882 
Phase C Total:
$191,965 
15% Contingency:
$33,432 
Total Cost (Phase C + 15% Contingency):
$225,397 
Phase C Monthly Cost of Operation:
$6,830.22 
Notes
-Standard subcontractor mark-up is 15%.
-Standard expenses mark-up is 15%.
-Contingency is 15% of the sum of Phase B and Phase C and is for additional, unexpected monitoring and reporting.
-This Budget is a lump sum estimate which will not be exceeded without prior written authorization from the client.
-Billing rates and laboratory rates for 2020 work include a 3% mark-up, rates for 2021 work include a 6% mark-up, and rates for 
2022 work include a 9% from 2019 costs to account for annual cost increases. 
Task C6 - Second Semester 2022 Monitoring and Report Preparation (includes semi-annual combined with 
annual report)
WSP
K:\Sundt Construction\WWTP Expansion San Mateo\Dewatering\Proposal\Phase BC\Phase BC Proposal_2019 Revisions\
Page 4 of 4
Revised: February 26, 2019
257 of 574

--- page 258 ---
WS|)

STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS

258 of 574


--- page 259 ---
259 of 574


--- page 260 ---
WSP USA 
2025 Gateway Place, Suite 435 
San Jose, California CA 95110 
 
wsp.com 
STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS  
The following “Standard Terms and Conditions” shall apply to all of “the Services” carried out by WSP USA Inc. (“WSP”), on behalf 
of Sundt Construction, Inc., “the Client” as of November 28, 2017. They shall constitute the sole contract between the Company and 
the Client until such time that they are replaced by a written, agreed, signed, and subsequent “Master Services Agreement.” 
1) DEFINITIONS 
a) “The Services” shall mean the scope of services, duties, and activities provided by the Company to the Client as 
defined in the attached proposal. 
b) The “Agreement” refers to these Standard Terms and Conditions subject to this document. 
2) AGREEMENT 
 
The Agreement is between the Client and the Company. 
a) The Client hereby confirms that it is entering into this Agreement wholly on its own behalf and not on behalf of or for 
the benefit of any other party, and agrees that in the event of any claim for breach of contract arising out of or in 
connection with this Agreement it shall be entitled to recover from the Company only the losses, if any, it has itself 
suffered. 
b) The Company shall in the performance of the Services (as defined in the proposal letter) exercise and will continue to 
exercise the reasonable skill, care, and diligence to be expected of a properly qualified and competent consultant 
experienced in the provision of such services as in effect at the time and location where the Services are performed. 
NO OTHER REPRESENTATIONS TO CLIENT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND NO WARRANTY OR GUARANTEE IS INCLUDED 
OR INTENDED IN THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY REPORT, OPINION DOCUMENT OR OTHERWISE. 
c) The Company shall not be required to sign any documents, no matter by whom requested, that would result in the 
Company having to certify, guarantee or warrant the existence of conditions whose existence the Company cannot 
ascertain. The Client also agrees not to make resolution of any dispute with the Company or payment of any amount 
due to the Company in any way contingent upon the Company’s signing any such certification. 
d) The Services shall be provided by the Company for the sole benefit and use of the Client unless otherwise agreed in 
writing by the parties. Unless otherwise agreed in writing by the parties, no person other than the Client may rely on 
any report or other communication made in writing or otherwise by the Company in relation to the Services. 
e) The Company has no responsibility for hazardous or toxic substances or other waste materials found or identified as 
part of the services and the Company shall have no responsibility for the removal, treatment, storage, transport or 
disposal of these materials unless specifically agreed in writing with the Client. In any event, the Company shall utilize 
only the licensed or permitted treatment, storage, or disposal facility or facilities designated by Client. 
f) 
The information contained in the proposal is provided in confidence and regarded as commercially sensitive and 
confidential; in particular, rates, fees, personal information and other information deemed by the Company to be 
commercially sensitive should not be released by the Client to any other party without the Company`s prior written 
consent. 
g) The Client acknowledges and agrees that the Services may be performed in whole or in part by subcontractors 
selected by the Company in its reasonable discretion. The Company will name Client as a third party beneficiary of all 
260 of 574

--- page 261 ---
Page 2 
 
subcontracts entered into the performance of work under this Agreement unless the Client authorizes otherwise in 
writing. 
h) Client agrees that the Company is not responsible for damages arising directly or indirectly from any delays for failure 
of performance by Client or Client's contractors or consultants or discovery of any previously undisclosed hazardous 
substances or differing site conditions. In addition, if the delays resulting from any such causes increase the cost or 
time required by the Company to perform its services in an orderly and efficient manner, the Company shall be 
entitled to a reasonable adjustment in schedule and compensation. 
3) COMPENSATION 
a) Compensation. In consideration of the performance of the Services, the Client shall pay to the Company the fees 
stated in the proposal.  
b) Additional Services. If the Company is required by the Client to provide additional services outside the scope and 
nature of the Services set out in the proposal letter, the Client shall make payment according to the hourly rates and 
sums set out in the proposal letter.  
c) Termination. In the event that the Client requests the Services to be aborted, the Client shall pay to the Company the 
fees commensurate with the work completed by the Company. For the avoidance of doubt, the fees will include the 
preparation of reports or other deliverable items actually carried out whether or not the Client requires them to be 
issued.  
d) Currency. All monies due to the Company shall be paid in US $ (dollars) unless specifically detailed otherwise. 
e) Invoices. Payment is due on the date of each invoice rendered and accounts must be settled in full within 30 days of 
the date of the invoice. Invoices past due more than 10 days will be assessed at an interest rate based on one percent 
(1%) per month or the highest applicable rate permitted by law, whichever is less. Notice of any dispute concerning an 
invoice must be provided in writing within 14 days of receipt of the invoice or the invoice is deemed to be correct and 
the full sum according to the invoice is due to the Company. 
4) ACCESS TO INFORMATION 
Before the commencement of Services and continuing thereafter, the Client shall immediately notify the Company of any 
known potential or possible health or safety hazards existing on or near the project site on which Services are to be, or are 
being, performed by Company or its subcontractors, with particular reference to hazardous substances or conditions. The 
Client shall provide the Company with all relevant data and information in its possession relating to the site history, to the 
project, and to the environmental, geologic, and geotechnical surface and subsurface conditions of the site and 
surrounding areas. Furthermore, promptly on request by the Company, Client shall provide Company and its 
subcontractors with all information, requirements, reports, data, surveys, and instructions, and access to all premises 
within the Client’s control that Company may reasonably request to perform the Services. The Company may use such 
information, requirements, reports, data, surveys, and instructions in performing its Services and is entitled to rely 
upon the accuracy and completeness thereof. The Company shall not be held responsible for any errors or omissions 
that may arise as a result of erroneous or incomplete information provided by Client and/or Client’s consultants and 
contractors. 
5) LIMITATION OF LIABILITY 
Client agrees that to the fullest extent permitted by law, the Company’s total liability to client and third parties for any 
and all injuries, claims, losses, expenses, or damages whatsoever arising out of or in any way related to this agreement 
from any cause or causes, including but not limited to the Company’s negligence, errors, omissions, strict liability, breach 
of contract, or breach of warranty, shall not exceed and shall be limited to the lessor of total compensation paid to and 
retained by the Company for services pursuant to this agreement or the amount of the Company’s insurance provided 
261 of 574

--- page 262 ---
Page 3 
 
pursuant to this Agreement. The Company shall not be liable for any for lost revenues, lost profits, incidental, indirect, 
consequential, special or punitive damages incurred by the Client. 
The Company’s liability for any claims shall be further limited to such sum as it would be just and equitable for the 
Company to pay having regard to the extent of the Company’s responsibility for the loss or damage suffered as a result of 
each claim or series of claims in question (“the loss and damage”) and on the assumption that: 
a) all other Consultants and all Contractors shall have provided contractual undertakings on terms no less onerous than 
those applying to the Company in respect of the carrying out of their obligations, and 
b) there are no exclusions of or limitations of liability nor joint insurance or co-insurance provisions between the Client 
and any other party referred to in this clause and any other party who is responsible to any extent for the loss and 
damage is contractually liable to the Client for the loss and damage, and  
c) all other Consultants and all Contractors have paid, or agreed to pay, to the Client such proportion of the loss and 
damage which it would be just and equitable for them to pay having regard to the extent of their responsibility for the 
loss and damage. 
Client hereby acknowledges, understands and agrees that: (1) there are risks inherent to environmental investigation, 
analysis, management, and remediation, many of which cannot be ascertained or anticipated prior to or during the course 
of the Services; for example, site investigation activities may spread contaminants through geologic formations despite the 
use of accepted professional standards; (2) due to the inherently limited nature and amount of data resulting from 
environmental investigation methods, complete analysis of conditions is not always possible, and, therefore, conditions 
frequently vary from those anticipated earlier; for example, borings in one location may miss contaminants only a few feet 
away; and (3) technology, methods, accepted professional standards as well as law and policy, are undefined and/or 
constantly changing and evolving. In light of all of the foregoing and the Company’s lack of responsibility for creating the 
conditions requiring the Services, as a material inducement to and consideration for the Company’s agreement to perform 
the Services on the terms and at the price stated herein CLIENT SPECIFICALLY AGREES THAT THE COMPANY’S LIABILITY 
SHALL BE STRICTLY LIMITED AS AND TO THOSE CAUSES AND AMOUNTS PROVIDED ABOVE. 
6) DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the provision of the Services shall be settled by 
arbitration administered by the American Arbitration Association in accordance with its Commercial Arbitration, and 
judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator(s) may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. 
7) OWNERSHIP 
All intellectual property rights and copyright associated with the Company’s services shall remain vested in and the 
property of the Company. A specific license for use may be granted by the Company. Any such license will be strictly 
limited to issues associated with the Services. The Company will not accept any liability whatsoever for any use of the 
materials to which the license is granted for any purpose other than the original intent. In the event that the Client is in 
default of payment of monies due to the Company, such license is agreed by the parties to be immediately withdrawn and 
revoked. All reports, drawings, specifications, computer files, field data, notes and other documents and instruments 
prepared by the Company as instruments of service shall remain the property of the Company. The Company shall retain 
all common law, statutory and other reserved rights, including, without limitation, the copyrights thereto. 
8) CLIENT’S DUTIES 
a) The Client shall procure access for the Company to the property or properties in respect of which the Services are to 
be performed. 
262 of 574

--- page 263 ---
Page 4 
 
b) The Client shall supply to the Company without charge and within reasonable time all necessary and relevant data and 
information in the possession of the Client or known to him and shall give such assistance as shall reasonably be 
required by the Company in the performance of the Services. 
c) Where relevant to the Services, the Client shall give the Company adequate notice of any danger or hazard which 
might cause death or injury to their employees and of which the Client ought reasonably to be aware. 
d) Where relevant to the Services, the Client shall provide to the Company, prior to any intrusive investigations, full 
details concerning the presence and location of any underground or otherwise located services. If such details are 
unavailable, the Company will take reasonable precautions to identify such services including the use of specialist 
equipment. The Client agrees to reimburse the Company for the reasonable cost of any such precautions. Where no or 
insufficient information has been provided or is available, the Client agrees to indemnify the Company against any 
and all resulting losses or costs.  
9) BUDGETARY ESTIMATIONS 
Unless specifically stated to the contrary, any budgetary opinion or estimate offered by the Company, exclusive of written 
proposals signed by authorized representatives of the Company, is to be regarded by the Client as broad guidance only. 
The Company is not liable for any deviation from such budgetary opinions or estimates whatsoever.  
10) NO THIRD PARTY RIGHTS 
Nothing contained in this Agreement shall create a contractual relationship with or a cause of action in favor of a third 
party against either the Client or the Company. Any report issued by the Company is solely for the benefit of the Client for 
the purposes set out in the report and should not be relied on by third parties or for any other purpose without the 
express written consent of the Company. The Company shall have no liability whatsoever to a person who is not a party to 
the Agreement, unless otherwise agreed in writing. 
If requested by the Client, the Company will consider the provision of reliance letters to third parties in a form to be 
agreed by the Company. In relation to property transactions the provision of such agreements will normally be limited to a 
lender, a first purchaser and a first tenant, and will be provided on no more than two occasions. Additional fees may be 
payable for the provision of this service. 
11) REPORTING OBLIGATIONS  
In states where there is a legal obligation for a licensed professional (employed by the Company) or the Company to report 
an observed release of a hazardous material or petroleum product to the environment, an imminent threat to human 
health or the environment, or other incident (as defined by applicable law) to a regulatory agency, the Company shall first 
notify the Client and its Counsel regarding the nature and timing of the required notification, but in any case will comply 
with the applicable legal requirements with regard to reporting. 
12) SEVERABILITY 
If any term or condition of this Agreement is for any reason held to be illegal, invalid, ineffective, inoperable, or otherwise 
enforceable by law, it shall be severed and deemed to be deleted from this Agreement and the validity and enforceability of 
the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected or impaired thereby. 
13) PERSONAL LIABILITY 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other provision of this Agreement, the Company’s partners, 
members, agents, directors, officers and/or employees shall have no personal liability whatsoever arising out of or in 
connection with this Agreement or the performance of the Services hereunder. 
263 of 574

--- page 264 ---
Page 5 
 
14) HEADINGS 
The headings or captions within this Agreement shall be deemed set forth in the manner presented for the purposes of 
reference only and shall not control or otherwise affect the information set forth therein or interpretation thereof. 
15) MODIFICATION 
This Agreement may be modified or amended only by a written instrument signed by an authorized agent of each party. 
16) AUTHORITY 
Each individual and entity executing this Agreement hereby represents that he, she or it has the capacity set forth on the 
signature page hereof with full power and authority to bind the party on whose behalf he, she, or it is executing this 
Agreement to the terms and provisions hereof, and that such entity has authorized the execution of this Agreement as 
necessary to bind such entity to the terms and provisions hereof.  
17) GOVERNING LAW 
This Agreement shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the state of New York, and for all purposes shall 
be construed in accordance with the laws thereof. Client agrees that any and all disputes between the parties under or 
relating to the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be fully and completely adjudicated in any federal or state 
court located in the state of New York and Client completely and entirely waives any and all jurisdictional defenses it may 
have now or in the future to the jurisdictional reach of such courts. 
18) BUSINESS INTEGRITY 
The Company values innovation, unity and trust. We are passionate about our work and care about how we conduct 
ourselves with all individuals and corporations we interact with. Simply put, this is how we get things done. Our 
Company’s reputation depends on our ability to achieve our core values and to conduct our business ethically. To be clear, 
we do not, and will not, compromise on compliance with the law or on our business-conduct standards. We simply will not 
tolerate unethical behavior.  
As your professional services provider, we undertake to follow your business integrity rules. This being said, we also invite 
you to review our Code of Conduct and underlying policies. These guidelines are the Company’s standard for maintaining a 
legally-compliant and ethical workplace. They are available through our website at: http://www.wsp-pb.com/en/Who-we-
are/Corporate-Governance/Corporate-Policies/Code-of-Conduct-and-Policies/. If you have any questions about our 
guidelines, please contact one of the local representatives identified on our website. 
For situations which pertain to irregularities inconsistent with our guidelines, please report to our independent 
whistleblowing provider, Expolink. This service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Information as to numbers and 
e-mail where to contact the service provider can be found at: http://www.wsp-pb.com/en/Who-we-are/Corporate-
Governance/whistleblowing-service/. All calls and e-mails are confidential and you can remain anonymous, should you 
request. 
19) ACCEPTANCE OF AGREEMENT 
If upon submission of this Agreement to the Client, the Client fails to return a signed copy to the Company and knowingly 
allows the Company to proceed with the Services, such Services shall be deemed performed pursuant to the Agreement 
and these Terms and Conditions shall be binding the same as if the Agreement were fully executed.  
264 of 574

--- page 265 ---
Page 6 
 
By receipt and in the absence of a written declaration to the contrary, these initial “Standard Terms and Conditions” are 
accepted by the Client and deemed to constitute a contract between the Client and the Company for the delivery of the 
Services and shall be binding the same as if the Agreement were fully executed. 
 
Revised: May 2017 
265 of 574

--- page 266 ---
Malcolm Drilling Company, Inc.  
3503 Breakwater Ct. | Hayward, CA 94545 
Tel. 510-780-9181 | Fax 510-780-9177 
Contractor’s License No. CA259543  
December 3, 2019 
 
 
Sundt Construction 
2620 South 55th Street 
Tempe, AZ 85282 
P. 480-293-33004 
 
ATTN: 
Doug Lenz (ddlenz@sundt.com) 
 
 
 
RE: 
Potential Change Order (PCO) 001 – Sump Drilling Proposal 
 
San Mateo WWTP  
 
2050 Detroit Drive  
San Mateo, CA 94404  
 
Malcolm Drilling Company, Inc. (MDCI) is pleased to provide this proposal pricing for the installation of the steel casing 
pipe as part of the typical sump detail. Our pricing is based on the following unit prices, scope of work and attached 
Standard Conditions (Rev. 03/2018). 
 
PROPOSAL IS BASED UPON THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION PROVIDED BY OTHERS: 
 Sump Detail_Sundt marked-up sheet S008 
 Sump Locations Map sheet S041  
 
 
SCOPE OF WORK: 
1. Mobilization of equipment and tooling to site. 
2. Machine drill at each location 74”-80” diameter starter hole through the lime stabilized soil. 
3. Furnish permanent steel casing pipe 72” I.D. x ½” wall thick x 18ft long w/ twisting slots cut in top. 
4. Hoist steel casing into starter hole. 
5. Twist steel casing through Bay Mud to required depth plus 2ft extra to leave soil plug. 
6. Drill and clean out inside of steel casing with auger or drilling bucket. Leave 2ft plug of soil in bottom of casing. 
7. Grout annular space (as needed) between outside of steel casing and the starter hole. 
8. Any pile driving should occur, by others, after steel casing has been installed.  
9. Demobilization of equipment. 
 
 
PRICING:   
Item  
Item Description  
Quantity 
Units 
Unit Rate  
Total Amount 
1 
Mobilization/Demobilization/Safety 
1 
LS 
 $       32,000 
 $          32,000 
2 
Furnish and Install (4) 72” I.D. Steel Casings 
1 
LS 
 $     111,000 
 $        111,000 
Total  Price: 
$    143,000
 
 
 
 
266 of 574

--- page 267 ---
December 3, 2019 
PCO 001 – Sump Drilling 
 
 
Malcolm Drilling Company, Inc.  
 
pg. 2 
3503 Breakwater Ct. | Hayward, CA 94545 
Tel. 510-780-9181 | Fax 510-780-9177 
Contractor’s License No. CA259543 
DIR Public Works Contractor Registration No. 1000003389 
SPECIFIC EXCLUSIONS: 
While the attached Standard Conditions (Rev. 03/2018) apply to this project, we wish to specifically emphasize the 
following exclusions: 
• Field engineering, surveying and layout, including clearly marked center lines, grades, offset stakes for 
temporary shoring.  Each beam will require layout at the face of beam and two off-sets. 
• Settlement, system movement and vibration monitoring. 
• Furnishing water from hydrant (3” minimum) with 100’ of soil mix wall for soil mixing and tieback activities. 
• Removal, verification, (including potholing by others), protection (including capping of side sewer laterals), or 
relocation of utilities. 
• Safe access/egress including dry, level, firm, work platform for the entire site is required to be provided by 
others, including all-weather benches and ramps. 
• Prime Contractor shall provide protection and repair, if needed, of any driveways, paved roadways, sidewalks, 
or other finished/unfinished areas. 
• Clearing, and grubbing and any demolition. Removal of soldier piles after installation, including tops. 
• Any earthwork, including but not limited to any structural excavation, backfill, grade restoration, re-grading of 
pad or work areas, or finished grades after completion of soil mix operations. 
• Spoils handling, removal and disposal. 
• MDCI has included Level D PPE for this project, if contaminated material is encountered and additional PPE 
and/or additional training is required it will be considered an added cost paid by the prime contractor. 
• Concrete, slurry and/or grout washout areas and disposal of material. 
• Concrete, and grout sampling and testing. (Internal retaining wall concrete & tieback grout). 
• Traffic / pedestrian control; including any installation, removal or replacement of traffic control barricades, signs 
or other measures required for MDCI work operations.  MDCI will provide its own flaggers for its trucking during 
mobilization and demobilization of equipment only. 
• Obstructions to drilling (manmade or natural, debris, existing structures, etc.). 
• Storm water pollution prevention plans or measures. Wheel wash to be installed and maintained by others.  
SWPPP rocked entrance to be furnished by others to prevent the use of washing delivery truck tires. Street 
cleaning and any ventilation requirements and dust control measures. 
• Substrate preparation for receipt of waterproofing or any responsibility for adequacy / performance of 
waterproofing should waterproofing contractor affix waterproofing to shoring elements. 
 
We look forward to working with you on this project. Please contact us at 510-780-9181 if we can be of further 
assistance or if further clarification is required. 
 
Sincerely, 
MALCOLM DRILLING COOMPANY, INC. 
 
 
 
Robert Small, PE  
Estimator/Project Manager  
 
Attachments: 
 
• 
Sump Detail – S008 
• 
Sump Locations – S041 
 
 
 
 
 
267 of 574

--- page 268 ---
PILES PER 
PLAN, TYP
1'-0"
1'-0"
#6@6"
#6@18" CONT, TYP
MAX
 1'-6"
NOTE:
1. PIPE ENCASEMENT MUST 
MAINTAIN A MINIMUM OF 6" 
CLEAR FROM ADJACENT PILES, 
TYPICAL
2. SEE PIPE HANGER DETAIL FOR
PIPES GREATER THAN 1'-6" BELOW
SLAB.
MAT FDN REINF. PER 
PLANS, TYP
PILE SUPPORTED
MAT FOUNDATION
PILES PER 
PLAN, TYP
TYP
1'-0"
TYP
1'-0"
MAT FDN REINF. PER 
PLANS, TYP
4-#8 W/ 135° HOOKS
TO MAT FDN REINF
UNDERSLAB PIPE
(DIAMETER VARIES)
#4@12" HOOPS
NOTE:
CONCRETE HANGER AND 
PIPE ENCASEMENT MUST 
MAINTAIN A MINIMUM OF 6" 
CLEAR FROM ADJACENT PILES, 
TYPICAL
PILE SUPPORTED
MAT FOUNDATION
2-#8 W/ 135° HOOKS
TO MAT FDN REINF
MAT FDN REINF. PER 
PLANS, TYP
PILES PER 
PLAN, TYP
SEE PLANS
VARIES
3'-0"
2-#8 W/ 135° HOOKS
TO MAT FDN REINF
UNDERSLAB PIPE
(DIAMETER VARIES)
#4@12"OC HOOPS
8" CONC ENCASEMENT
(TYP ALL AROUND 
EXCEPT AT HANGERS)
NOTE:
1. SPACING OF PIPE HANGERS
NOT TO EXCEED 20'-0" MAXIMUM
2. CONCRETE HANGER MUST 
MAINTAIN A MINIMUM OF 6" 
CLEAR FROM ADJACENT PILES, 
TYPICAL
PILE SUPPORTED
MAT FOUNDATION
A
00S008
A
00S008
2'-0"
PER PLANS
9'-0" TO 12'-0"
#5@12"EF
#5 SPIRALS @ 12'' PITCH
2" CLR ALL AROUND
PILE
#6@6" EW TB
REFER TO PLANS FOR 
SLAB REINF
SECTION
(TYP)
1'-0"
FOR DIAMETER
REFER TO PLANS
A-A PLAN VIEW
A-A
NONE
SHEET
OF
SHEET NO.
DESIGNED BY:
DATE:
10048652
ISSUED FOR PERMIT 10/28/19
DRAWN BY:
QC CHKD BY:
PROJECT No:
SCALE:
SUBMITTAL:
DATE:
DATE:
San Mateo WWTP Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow
Management Upgrade and Expansion Project
City Project No. 46T003
REV. NO.
DESCRIPTION
BY
DATE
10/28/19
10/28/19
10/28/19
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION 10/28/19
BIM 360://10048652_San_Mateo_WWTP/10048652-00-S-DETAILS.rvt
10/23/2019 12:03:49 PM
00S008
GENERAL
TYPICAL UNDERSLAB DETAILS
P. NGUYEN
K. KIRCHNER
D. ELDREDGE
-
1/2" = 1'-0"
1
PIPE ENCASEMENT DETAIL FOR UNDERSLAB UTILITIES
-
1/2" = 1'-0"
A
PIPE HANGER DETAIL
-
1/2" = 1'-0"
2
PIPE HANGER DETAIL
-
1/2" = 1'-0"
3
TYPICAL SUMP DETAIL
A
ISSUED FOR PERMIT
LJ 10/28/19
268 of 574
80" Auger Drill
72" ID Steel Casing
Construction Sequence
1. Drive Pile with follower bar to required elevation - GM
Pil C
ti
(
Sh
t 00S006
Extend Casing 2ft below
bottom of sump to leave
a soil plug in bottom

--- page 269 ---
52-1
55-A
53-B
56-A
56-11
64-A
51-G
51-A
35'-3"
159'-7"
142'-4"
29'-2"
182'-0"
124'-8"
1
EDGE OF FOUNDATION AT
ELEVATION 90 OR LOWER
EDGE OF FOUNDATION
ABOVE ELEVATION 90
52-4
52-E
52-A
70-A
70-1
56-15
51-1
51-3
56-C
87'-6"
12'-6"
34'-0"
110'-0"
1
53-A
1
1
1
1
1
1
2
57'-2"
113'-6"
235'-6"
1
ALL PILES SHOWN ON THIS SHEET SHALL BE AS 
SHOWN ON  SHEET 00S006 - TYPICAL PILE DETAILS 
AND DESIGN AND INSPECTION SCHEDULE. SEE 
SPECIFICATION SECTION 31 62 13 FOR ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION ON DRIVEN PILES.
2
REFER TO GMP-1, SHEET C221 FOR APPLICABLE 
INFORMATION NOT SHOWN HERE.
PILE PLAN NOTES:
SHEET KEYNOTES    
NONE
SHEET
OF
SHEET NO.
DESIGNED BY:
DATE:
10048652
RELEASED FOR 
CONSTRUCTION - 10/28/19
DRAWN BY:
QC CHKD BY:
PROJECT No:
SCALE:
SUBMITTAL:
DATE:
DATE:
San Mateo WWTP Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow
Management Upgrade and Expansion Project
City Project No. 46T003
REV. NO.
DESCRIPTION
BY
DATE
10/28/19
10/28/19
10/28/19
BIM 360://10048652_San_Mateo_WWTP/10048652-53-S.rvt
10/21/2019 4:04:00 PM
00S041
STRUCTURAL OVERALL PILE PLAN
P. NGUYEN
K. KIRCHNER
D. ELDREDGE
1" = 30'-0"
OVERALL PILE PLAN
1
INDICATOR PILE PER SPECIFICATION 31 62 13
2
OUTLINE OF ADMINISTRATION BUILDING. SEE
80S-SERIES FOR INDICATOR PILES, PILE DESIGN
AND PILE SCHEDULE
A
GMP-2 90% SUBMITTAL
LJ
6/28/19
B
GMP-2 90% REV B
LJ
8/12/19
C
ISSUED FOR PERMIT
LJ 10/01/19
0
RELEASED FOR CONST.
LJ 10/28/19
8           31
269 of 574

--- page 270 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
12/19/2019
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3141 - Sump Drilling
143,000.00
2.6 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit E - List of Contract Documents, and any 
 
excep0ons have been listed in Ques0on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.7 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit F - Quality Systems Manual, and any 
 
excep0ons have been listed in Ques0on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.8 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit G - Insurance Manual, and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques0on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.3 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit B - Instructions to Bidders, and any 
exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of this Bid Form. 
2.4 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit C - Project Schedule (if a Schedule was 
provided), and any exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of this Bid Form. 
2.5 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit D - Sundt Safety System Manual, and any 
 
excep0ons have been listed in Ques0on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Questions
Response
Project Scope 
2.1 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of the plans and specifications (including appendices), 
 
and any excep0ons have been listed in Ques0on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.2 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit A - Scope of Work Directive, and any 
exceptions in this Bid Form. 
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
12/13/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
 General Information
Companies:
Malcolm Drilling
Contact Name:
Rob Small
Phone:
270 of 574

--- page 271 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
12/19/2019
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3141 - Sump Drilling
143,000.00
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
12/13/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
Companies:
Malcolm Drilling
Contact Name:
Rob Small
Phone:
3.3 - Clarify design elements that are absent from the Bidding Document effecting the 
 
warrantability of the work to be provided under this Bid Package.
3.4 - Shop drawing and submittal preparation lead time:
3.5 - Fabrication & delivery lead time:
6.0 - The bidder acknowledges the right of Sundt Construction, Inc. and/or the Owner to reject any 
and all bids, and to waive any informality or irregularity in any bid received, or to negotiate 
contract terms with the various Bidders, when such is deemed by Sundt Construction, Inc. and/or 
the Owner to be in the best interest of the Project.  (Electronic Signature) 
3.1 - Identify any items included in this Bid, and related to the work of this Bid Package, that are 
 
not in compliance with the Bidding Documents.
3.2 - Identify any and all elements related the work of this Bid Package that are excluded from this 
 
Bid, or related elements that are assumed by Bidder to be provided by others.
2.9 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit H - Textura Overview and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques0on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.10 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all flow-down requirements of Exhibit I - Prime Contract, and any 
 
excep0ons have been listed in Ques0on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
y
g
g
p
of Agreement, and (a) agrees to all the terms and conditions of the Sample Form of Agreement, or 
(b) has provided Sundt with a redlined copy of the Sample Form of Agreement, or (c) has provided 
Sundt with a list of specific exceptions referenced by paragraph number. Note that failure to sign 
this acknowledgment may result in this Bid being considered non-responsive and subject to 
disqualification. 
271 of 574

--- page 272 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
12/19/2019
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3141 - Sump Drilling
143,000.00
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
12/13/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
Companies:
Malcolm Drilling
Contact Name:
Rob Small
Phone:
5.1 - MBE/WBE Participation - Amount of participation by Certified Firms included in net bid (2nd, 
3rd Tier Subcontractors/Suppliers) represented by percentage: 
5.2 - MBE/WBE Participation - Dollar Value of participation included in Net Bid: 
2.11 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit J - City of San Mateo Business 
cooperation/Use tax enhancement program and any exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of 
 
this Bid Form.
4.2 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Deductive Self-Performed Work - Overhead & Profit 
(in percent): 
4.3 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Deductive Second Tier Subcontractor Work - 
Overhead & Profit (in percent): 
5.0 - MBE/WBE Participation - Amount of participation by certified firms included in net bid (100% 
if bidder is certified) represented by percentage: 
3.6 - Qualifications or exceptions to any procedures described in the Instructions to Bidders shall be 
 
listed below.  This includes any excep0ons to the Sample Standard Form of Agreement.
4.0 - Markups and Fess for Changes in the Work - Additional Self-Performed Work - Overhead & 
Profit (in percent):
4.1 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Additional Second Tier Subcontractor Work - 
Overhead & Profit (in percent): 
272 of 574

--- page 273 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
12/19/2019
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3141 - Sump Drilling
143,000.00
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
12/13/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
Companies:
Malcolm Drilling
Contact Name:
Rob Small
Phone:
All training required to meet manufacturers or industry standards is to be included including any 
trade qualifications required.   
2.18 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, the Bidder confirms that they are in agreement 
with, understand, and have included any additional costs that may be associated with providing all 
 
warran0es as stated within the Bidding Documents including applicable Speciﬁca0ons.
2.19 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder acknowledges that a complete 
SUBCONTRACTOR QUALIFICATION FORM, and its associated requirements, must be complete 
before Sundt will consider issuing a Subcontract. Please contact Andre Castaneda at 480-293-3130, 
 
acastaneda@sundt.com to validate your company’s prequaliﬁca0on status.
Code Scope 
2.15 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit N - Lean Construction and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques0on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.16 - Bidder certifies that they have included all required spare parts, training, submittals, O&M 
manuals, shop drawings and installation checks, etc. as listed in the Specifications. Any exceptions 
 
shall be listed in Ques0on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.17 - Bidder certifies that the price listed on this Bid Form is a firm price through the final delivery 
of the equipment/materials proposed herein, and that no material escalations will be accepted as 
part of any subsequent Agreement. Any exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of this Bid 
 
Form.
2.12 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit K - City of San Mateo Contractors 
 
Ques0onnaire and any excep0ons have been listed in Ques0on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.13 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit L - San Mateo WWTP - BAAQMD Scope 
requirements - Basic construction mitigation measures and any exceptions have been listed in 
 
Ques0on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
2.14 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit M - Prevailing Wages and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques0on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
273 of 574

--- page 274 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
12/19/2019
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3141 - Sump Drilling
143,000.00
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
12/13/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
Companies:
Malcolm Drilling
Contact Name:
Rob Small
Phone:
q p
p
p
y
y
y
intended work activities.  Subcontractor equipment is subject to inspection at the discretion of the 
CMAR.  Equipment that does not conform to the National, State, Local and Site requirements and 
manufacturer specifications shall be promptly repaired or replaced with equipment acceptable to 
CMAR without additional cost to the CMAR and without delay to the schedule. 
All necessary safety training (Confined space, fall protection, AWP, etc.) will be provided by the 
subcontractor.  
Perform all work in accordance with plans, specifications and all applicable local, state and federal 
codes and standards. 
Service Provider will adhere to all requirements of Sundt’s site specific and standard safety policies 
without exception. 
One mobilization is included.  Additional mobilizations will incur additional charges. 
Subcontractor is held accountable for any delays incurred by not following the contract submittal 
procedures. 
Pricing is valid through ihe duration of the project. No escalations will be allowed. 
Participate and comply with Contractor Quality Assurance/Quality Control Plan. 
Active participation in project required meetings. 
274 of 574

--- page 275 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2
12/19/2019
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3141 - Sump Drilling
143,000.00
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
12/13/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
Companies:
Malcolm Drilling
Contact Name:
Rob Small
Phone:
Bid Breakdown
Item Description
UOM
Quantity
$ Unit Price
$ Total
Mobilization / Demobilization / Safety
LS
1
32,000.00
$         
32,000.00
$         
Furnish and Install (4) 72” I.D. Steel Casings
LS
1
111,000.00
$       
111,000.00
$       
 Equipment shall be properly maintained and be free of oil, fuel or chemical leaks.  Containment 
and protection against leaks and spills will be installed in accordance with local and state 
requirements.  Service Provider shall immediately report, clean and properly dispose of any oils, 
fuels, or chemicals spilled onto the project site, including any spill contaminated soils.
Project Specific - This project has a liquidated damages clause listed in Section 6.6 of the Prime 
Contract based on the Substantial Complete date set at $5,000 per day and $2,500 per day for Final 
Completion.  The Substantial Complete date is will be finalized upon approval of the GMP2 Baseline 
Schedule as noted in 6.2.1.  Please refer to the preliminary schedule (bidding document Exhibit C). Yes
Project Specific - The Project is subject to Prevailing Wage Rates and Certified Payrolls.  Service 
Provider will adhere to all requirements of the California Department of Industrial Relations 
including labor rates and apprenticeship requirements.  See Exhibit N_Prevailing Wages and 
Attachment 1_Sample Agreements for additional direction.
pp
g
q
g
requirements.  In addition, WIFIA requires that the project includes Davis Bacon Labor 
requirements.  Subcontractor will review Prevailing Wage and Davis Bacon Labor and include the 
more stringent of the two.  WIFIA funding requirements can be found here:  
https://www.epa.gov/wifia/wifia-resources#handbook
Service Provider  shall provide all labor, material, equipment, and appurtenances as required to 
complete the described scope of work complete per plans, specifications, and contract documents.
greatest extent possible, “local” labor.  Upon award, the selected Service Provider for this scope of 
work will provide a local labor hire plan for review and approval.  Local hire plan will demonstrate 
good faith effort and best practices for hiring of local labor.  “Local” is considered to include all 
localities within the 9 bay area counties.
 
Project Speciﬁc - 4.9The City of San Mateo is implemen0ng a Project Labor Agreement (PLA) on 
the project.  All costs will need to be included for the implementation of this PLA in the 
subcontractor’s bid price.   
275 of 574

--- page 276 ---
San Mateo WWTP Upgrades Project 
Page 1 of 4 
 
2200 Jerrold Avenue, Suite K, San Francisco, CA 94124 
(415) 641‐2570     municon@municon.net 
Revised on December 16, 2019 
Proposal No.: 1341 
 
Doug Lenz 
Sundt Construction 
2620 S. 55th Street 
Tempe, AZ 85282 
 
Subject:  
Proposal for Vibration Monitoring Services 
San Mateo Waste Water Treatment Plant ‐ Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow 
Management Upgrade and Expansion Project 
 
San Mateo, CA 
 
Dear Doug,  
 
Municon West Coast, Inc. is pleased to present this revised proposal for Vibration Monitoring Services at 
the San Mateo Waste Water Treatment Plant project in San Mateo. This proposal is based upon our 
correspondence with you and our prior experience at this site during the indicator pile program. This 
proposal for vibration monitoring supersedes our proposals dated August 16 and December 10, 2019. 
 
Project Description 
 
We understand the WWTP Upgrade and Expansion Project consists of new liquids treatment process 
facilities,  including  headworks,  primary  treatment,  five‐stage  biological  nutrient  removal/membrane 
bioreactor (BNR/MBR) process, biological and chemically enhanced treatment (BioCET) process, and other 
general plant upgrades, including odor control to serve the new facilities. 
 
You have indicated that vibration monitoring will be required for approximately 12 months at six (6) 
monitoring locations. The unit charges for recurring costs (table below) will remain the same if the actual 
duration is shorter or longer than the assumed duration.  
 
VIBRATION MONITORING 
 
We will deploy seismographs to measure vibrations at locations which we will identify in our Vibration 
Monitoring Plan (VMP). We will employ a total of six (6) industry standard seismographs with remote 
connectivity, protective housing, and backup power supply.   
 
We  will  prepare  a  Vibration  Monitoring  Plan  that  will  describe  the  vibration  monitoring  equipment, 
remote reporting and alarm capabilities, proposed monitoring locations, methods for notifying you of 
exceedances, and reporting intervals.  Please note that the Monitoring Plan is not a Vibration Control Plan, 
and will not include recommendations for limiting vibration levels during construction. 
 
Final locations of seismographs will be determined in the field based on site conditions and ability to 
protect equipment.  We anticipate all initial monitoring locations will be accessible on the same day to 
allow us to install all required seismographs in one visit.  If requested, we will install the seismographs one 
week  prior  to  the  commencement  of  construction  in  order  to  develop  a  “baseline  record.”    At  the 
completion of the construction work, we will remove the seismographs from the work area.   
276 of 574

--- page 277 ---
San Mateo WWTP Upgrades Project 
Page 2 of 4 
 
2200 Jerrold Avenue, Suite K, San Francisco, CA 94124 
(415) 641‐2570     municon@municon.net 
We will monitor peak particle velocity on three orthogonal channels, simultaneously. Our seismographs 
will be configured to send SMS (text message) alerts to the Designated Responsible Person and others as 
requested  in  the  event  of  a  Threshold  Vibration  Value  or  Limiting  Vibration  Value  exceedance.    The 
vibration  limits  have  been  established  by  others.    We  will  provide  monthly  data  reports  during 
construction.  We can provide a final report at the conclusion of construction, if requested.   
 
The costs for vibration monitoring are summarized in Table 1. We understand that four (4) stationary 
seismographs will be needed at the perimeter for your project. In addition, two (2) vibration monitoring 
points adjacent to concrete pour areas will be need to be set up and relocated up to three (3) times per 
week while pile driving is occurring concurrent with concrete pours.    
 
Table 1: Vibration Monitoring 
Fixed Costs 
Item 
Unit 
Cost 
Qty. 
Duration 
Line Total 
Prepare Vibration Monitoring Plan  
$1,200  
1 
‐ 
$1,200  
Install vibration monitors  
$800  
6 
‐ 
$4,800  
Remove vibration monitors  
$600  
6 
‐ 
$3,600  
Configure data presentation website 
$750  
1 
‐ 
$750  
Final Vibration Monitoring reports 
$1,800  
1 
‐ 
$1,800  
Mobilize to site to relocate seismographs 
$300 
90 
‐ 
$27,000 
Subtotal 
$39,150  
Recurring Costs 
Item 
Unit 
Cost 
Qty. 
Duration 
Line Total 
Equipment Use and Maintenance 
$850  
6 
12 months 
$61,200  
Access to password‐protected website 
$75  
6 
12 months 
$5,400  
Monthly Vibration Monitoring Reports 
$600  
1 
12 months 
$7,200  
Subtotal 
$73,800  
TOTAL 
$112,950  
 
Our pricing takes into account that additional measures may need to be implemented in order to achieve 
good remote data collection.  You will be responsible for providing power to our vibration monitoring 
stations.  If our monitors will need to be powered by batteries and/or solar power, then maintenance fees 
will be passed on to you.   
 
 
277 of 574

--- page 278 ---
San Mateo WWTP Upgrades Project 
Page 3 of 4 
 
2200 Jerrold Avenue, Suite K, San Francisco, CA 94124 
(415) 641‐2570     municon@municon.net 
CLOSURE 
 
Municon West Coast, Inc. is pleased to present this revised proposal for Vibration Monitoring Services at 
the San Mateo WWTP Upgrades Project in San Mateo. This proposal is based upon our correspondence 
with you and our prior experience at the site during the indicator pile program.   
 
Per your request, we have assumed monitoring will be required for 12 months; recurring costs will remain 
the same if the actual duration is shorter or longer than the assumed duration. 
 
We are happy to discuss any of the assumptions we have made and clarify any of the information herein. 
We look forward to the opportunity to work with you on this project. 
 
Yours truly, 
Municon West Coast, Inc. 
                                                                                                     reviewed by 
 
 
 
 
 
Tommy Poole, P.G. 
Matt Kokan, M.Sc., P.Eng (BC, AB) 
Senior Project Geologist 
Director  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
278 of 574

--- page 279 ---
San Mateo WWTP Upgrades Project 
Page 4 of 4 
 
2200 Jerrold Avenue, Suite K, San Francisco, CA 94124 
(415) 641‐2570     municon@municon.net 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
1. Municon West Coast, Inc. holds DIR #1000059972 but by definition provide “exempt” consulting 
services. 
2. We are not a contractor, labor, trade nor union signatory. No certified payrolls. 
3. Payment within 30 days of invoicing. No retention. 
4. Municon West Coast, Inc. offers to provide the insurance coverages it presently holds up to its 
existing limits, at all times the scope of work is being performed. 
5. No indemnification of any person’s active negligence. 
6. We request a minimum of five days to review the contract agreements offered by you, the 
insurance requirements, and an allowance of a minimum 72 hours to receive any certificates of 
insurance. 
7. Access arrangements to be provided by project owner unless explicitly offered herein. 
8. These unit price rates for equipment deployments/removals, use, reports, and maintenance apply if 
durations exceed projected durations. Rates are not pro‐rated. 
9. Unless specifically called for or explicitly offered herein, written interpretations or professional 
opinions, and other data reports are not included. 
 
 
279 of 574

--- page 280 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
12/19/2019
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3162 - Precast Prestressed Concrete Piles
11,375,247.50
$   
11,987,610.00
$   
General Information
3.4 - Shop drawing and submittal preparation lead time:
2 Weeks
2-3 weeks
2.10 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, 
and are in full compliance with all flow-down requirements of Exhibit H - Prime Contract, and any 
 
excep1ons have been listed in Ques1on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Yes
No
3.3 - Clarify design elements that are absent from the Bidding Document effecting the 
 
warrantability of the work to be provided under this Bid Package.
The above pile maximum factored tension capacity is 75 kN/A
3.2 - Identify any and all elements related the work of this Bid Package that are excluded from 
 
this Bid, or related elements that are assumed by Bidder to be provided by others.
  
  
Project Exclusions:1.Noise and Vibra1on monitoring.2.LocSee Proposal
3.1 - Identify any items included in this Bid, and related to the work of this Bid Package, that are 
 
not in compliance with the Bidding Documents.
 
Project Exclusions: 1.Excava1on and shoring. (see app pricSee proposal
Project Scope 
2.1 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of the plans and specifications (including 
 
appendices), and any excep1ons have been listed in Ques1on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Yes
Yes
2.4 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit C - Project Schedule (if a Schedule was 
provided), and any exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of this Bid Form. 
Yes
Yes
2.3 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit B - Instructions to Bidders, and any 
exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 of this Bid Form. 
No
No
2.2 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit A - Scope of Work Directive, and any 
exceptions in this Bid Form. 
No
No
2.6 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit E - List of Contract Documents, and any 
 
excep1ons have been listed in Ques1on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Yes
No
2.5 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit D - Sundt Safety System Manual, and any 
 
excep1ons have been listed in Ques1on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Yes
Yes
2.9 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit G - Textura Overview and any exceptions 
 
have been listed in Ques1on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Yes
Yes
2.7 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, and 
are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit F - Quality Systems Manual, and any 
 
excep1ons have been listed in Ques1on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Yes
No
Response
Response
Questions
Condon Johnson & Associates Inc.
Mike Lindsay
Yes
12/19/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
Foundation Constructors
Wyatt Gregory
Yes
12/19/2019
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
280 of 574

--- page 281 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
12/19/2019
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3162 - Precast Prestressed Concrete Piles
11,375,247.50
$   
11,987,610.00
$   
General Information
Condon Johnson & Associates Inc.
Mike Lindsay
Yes
12/19/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
Foundation Constructors
Wyatt Gregory
Yes
12/19/2019
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
2.12 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, 
and are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit J - City of San Mateo Contractors 
 
Ques1onnaire and any excep1ons have been listed in Ques1on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Yes
No
2.11 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, 
and are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit I - City of San Mateo Business 
cooperation/Use tax enhancement program and any exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 
 
of this Bid Form.
Yes
Yes
2.13 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, 
and are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit K - San Mateo WWTP - BAAQMD 
Scope requirements - Basic construction mitigation measures and any exceptions have been 
 
listed in Ques1on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Yes
No
5.0 - MBE/WBE Participation - Amount of participation by certified firms included in net bid 
(100% if bidder is certified) represented by percentage: 
N/A
0%
4.3 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Deductive Second Tier Subcontractor Work - 
Overhead & Profit (in percent): 
5%
5%
5.2 - MBE/WBE Participation - Dollar Value of participation included in Net Bid: 
N/A
0% included in base price however for premium we can in
5.1 - MBE/WBE Participation - Amount of participation by Certified Firms included in net bid 
(2nd, 3rd Tier Subcontractors/Suppliers) represented by percentage: 
N/A
0%
4.0 - Markups and Fess for Changes in the Work - Additional Self-Performed Work - Overhead & 
Profit (in percent):
15%
20%
6.0 - The bidder acknowledges the right of Sundt Construction, Inc. and/or the Owner to reject 
any and all bids, and to waive any informality or irregularity in any bid received, or to negotiate 
contract terms with the various Bidders, when such is deemed by Sundt Construction, Inc. and/or 
the Owner to be in the best interest of the Project.  (Electronic Signature) 
Wyatt Gregory
Mike Lindsay
4.2 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Deductive Self-Performed Work - Overhead & 
Profit (in percent): 
5%
15%
4.1 - Markups and Fees for Changes in Work - Additional Second Tier Subcontractor Work - 
Overhead & Profit (in percent): 
15%
10%
3.5 - Fabrication & delivery lead time:
6-7 Weeks
4-5 weeks
y
g
g
p
Form of Agreement, and (a) agrees to all the terms and conditions of the Sample Form of 
Agreement, or (b) has provided Sundt with a redlined copy of the Sample Form of Agreement, or 
(c) has provided Sundt with a list of specific exceptions referenced by paragraph number. Note 
that failure to sign this acknowledgment may result in this Bid being considered non-responsive 
and subject to disqualification. 
(b) Bidder has provided a redlined copy of the Sample For(b) Bidder has provided a redlined copy of the Sample For
3.6 - Qualifications or exceptions to any procedures described in the Instructions to Bidders shall 
be listed below.  This includes any exceptions to the Sample Standard Form of 
 
Agreement.
Exhibit A,B and PLA instructions were not made available See Proposal and marked up sample subcontract
281 of 574

--- page 282 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
12/19/2019
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3162 - Precast Prestressed Concrete Piles
11,375,247.50
$   
11,987,610.00
$   
General Information
Condon Johnson & Associates Inc.
Mike Lindsay
Yes
12/19/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
Foundation Constructors
Wyatt Gregory
Yes
12/19/2019
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
2.16 - Bidder certifies that they have included all required spare parts, training, submittals, O&M 
manuals, shop drawings and installation checks, etc. as listed in the Specifications. Any 
 
excep1ons shall be listed in Ques1on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Yes
Yes
2.15 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, 
and are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit M - Lean Construction and any 
 
excep1ons have been listed in Ques1on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Yes
Yes
2.14 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder confirms they have read, understand, 
and are in full compliance with all requirements of Exhibit L - Prevailing Wages and any 
 
excep1ons have been listed in Ques1on 3.1 of this Bid Form.
Yes
Yes
2.18 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, the Bidder confirms that they are in agreement 
with, understand, and have included any additional costs that may be associated with providing 
 
all warran1es as stated within the Bidding Documents including applicable Speciﬁca1ons.
Yes
Yes
2.17 - Bidder certifies that the price listed on this Bid Form is a firm price through the final 
delivery of the equipment/materials proposed herein, and that no material escalations will be 
accepted as part of any subsequent Agreement. Any exceptions have been listed in Question 3.1 
 
of this Bid Form.
Yes
Yes
Cleanup of work area to be completed daily. Subcontractor is required to maintain a neat and 
orderly work area free of debris. If "No" is selected, please explain.
Yes
Yes
Equipment shall be properly maintained and be free of oil, fuel or chemical leaks.  Containment 
and protection against leaks and spills will be installed in accordance with local and state 
requirements.  Subcontractor shall immediately report, clean and properly dispose of any oils, 
fuels, or chemicals spilled onto the project site, including any spill contaminated soils. If "No" is 
selected, please explain.
Yes
Yes
q p
p
p
y
y
y
the intended work activities.  Subcontractor equipment is subject to inspection at the discretion 
of the CMAR.  Equipment that does not conform to the National, State, Local and Site 
requirements and manufacturer specifications shall be promptly repaired or replaced with 
equipment acceptable to CMAR without additional cost to the CMAR and without delay to the 
schedule.   If "No" is selected, please explain.
Yes
Yes
Subcontractor shall comply with project Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) as 
pertains to their Work. Project specific SWPPP requires Best Management Practices (BMPs) to be 
in place prior to any excavation. BMP coordination is the responsibility of the Subcontractor. 
Subcontractor shall protect all SWPPP BMP installations from damage and repair any damage to 
BMPs caused by Subcontractor’s actions. If "No" is selected, please explain.
Yes
Yes
Subcontractor will participate in Sundt Construction scheduling meetings including all required 
Lean Pull Planning Sessions, 6 weeks look ahead meetings (held weekly) and other meetings as 
required to ensure accuracy and completeness of Sundt Construction Schedule.  Subcontractor 
shall attend other meetings as required to coordinate, plan or otherwise participate with project 
teams. If "No" is selected, please explain.
Yes
Yes
Code Scope 
All training required to meet manufacturers or industry standards is to be included including any 
trade qualifications required.   If "No" is selected, please explain.
Yes
Yes
2.19 - In submitting this Bid as described herein, Bidder acknowledges that a complete 
SUBCONTRACTOR QUALIFICATION FORM, and its associated requirements, must be complete 
before Sundt will consider issuing a Subcontract. Please contact Andre Castaneda at 480-293-
 
3130, acastaneda@sundt.com to validate your company’s prequaliﬁca1on status.
Yes
Yes
Subcontractor will adhere to all requirements of Sundt’s site specific and standard safety policies 
without exception. If "No" is selected, please explain.
Yes
Yes
Perform all work in accordance with plans, specifications and all applicable local, state and 
federal codes and standards. If "No" is selected, please explain.
Yes
Yes
282 of 574

--- page 283 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
12/19/2019
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3162 - Precast Prestressed Concrete Piles
11,375,247.50
$   
11,987,610.00
$   
General Information
Condon Johnson & Associates Inc.
Mike Lindsay
Yes
12/19/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
Foundation Constructors
Wyatt Gregory
Yes
12/19/2019
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
Subcontractor shall employ the services of an independent testing laboratory to perform all 
required pile concrete testing and fabrication Special Inspection per the Building Code. If "No" is 
selected, please explain.
No - Explanation: Potential conflict of interest. Scope 
typically covered by owner. 
No - Explanation: see proposal
Subcontractor shall submit their certifications. If "No" is selected, please explain.
Yes
Yes
Subcontractor shall comply with Quality Control standards listed in the specification during the 
production of the piles.   If "No" is selected, please explain.
Yes
Yes
Pile manufacturer’s testing facilities to meet requirements of ASTM E329. If "No" is selected, 
please explain.
Yes
Yes
Provide piles manufactured by a plant which has regularly and continuously engaged in the 
manufacture of piles of same type as those required for a minimum of three (3) years. If "No" is 
selected, please explain.
Yes
Yes
Subcontractor shall submit records for a minimum of three (3) previous installations of the 
required type of pile and in similar soil conditions. If "No" is selected, please explain.
Yes - Explanation: Please see attached list with Proposal Yes
Subcontractor must have a minimum of five (5) years experience installing piles with similar 
quantity under similar soil conditions. If "No" is selected, please explain.
Yes
Yes
j
p
p
j
p
g
g
applicable WIFIA funding requirements including, but not limited to, American Iron & Steel 
requirements.  In addition, WIFIA requires that the project includes Davis Bacon Labor 
requirements.  Subcontractor will review Prevailing Wage and Davis Bacon Labor and include the 
more stringent of the two.  WIFIA funding requirements can be found here: 
https://www.epa.gov/wifia/wifia-resources#handbook If "No" is selected, please explain.
Yes
Yes
Project Specific -  The Project is subject to Prevailing Wage Rates and Certified Payrolls.  
Subcontractor will adhere to all requirements of the California Department of Industrial 
Relations including labor rates and apprenticeship requirements.  See Exhibit N_Prevailing 
Wages and Attachment 1_Sample Agreements for additional direction. If "No" is selected, please 
explain.
Yes
Yes
Precast prestressed concrete piles produced by an active member of Prestressed Concrete 
Institute. If "No" is selected, please explain.
Yes
Yes
Pile lengths extending above cut off elevation will be considered as waste.  Subcontractor will 
stockpile all pile cut-off material.  Loading and haul-off will be done by others.  
 If "No" is selected, please explain.
Yes
No - Explanation: see proposal
Subcontractor will provide auditable quantities of units installed on a weekly basis in a format 
similar to the WBS as shown on the bid breakdown.  Scope progress and payment progress will 
be based on rules of credit developed in conjunction with Sundt upon award of contract.  Upon 
award subcontractor will provide adequate cost breakdown as required to fill out progress 
tracking reports. If "No" is selected, please explain.
Yes
Yes
Project Specific - The City of San Mateo has implemented a Project Labor Agreement (PLA) on 
the project.  Subcontractor is required to review the PLA terms and provide any cost adjustments 
needed. If "No" is selected, please explain.
No - Explanation: Information not provided in plan room Yes
Project Specific - As a bay area project, the City of San Mateo has requested that we utilize, to 
the greatest extent possible, “local” labor.  Upon award, the selected subcontractor for this 
scope of work will provide a local labor hire plan for review and approval.  Local hire plan will 
demonstrate good faith effort and best practices for hiring of local labor.  “Local” is considered to 
include all localities within the 9 bay area counties. If "No" is selected, please explain.
Yes
Yes
283 of 574

--- page 284 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
12/19/2019
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3162 - Precast Prestressed Concrete Piles
11,375,247.50
$   
11,987,610.00
$   
General Information
Condon Johnson & Associates Inc.
Mike Lindsay
Yes
12/19/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
Foundation Constructors
Wyatt Gregory
Yes
12/19/2019
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
Pile subcontractor responsible for evacuation of groundwater from the pre-drill cavity and then 
backfill of the pre-drill cavity per the specifications.  
Yes
No
Phase 1 Scope requires mobilization of additional Pile Driving Equipment to support 2 crews once 
cleared to drive Production Piles.  
Yes
Yes
Phase 2 Scope includes:  1.)  Process Area 51 ; Pre-cast Piles > 90' Cut-off Elevation,  2.)   Process 
Area 56;  Pre-cast Piles > 90' Cut-off Elevation, 3.)   Process Area 64;  Pre-cast Piles > 90' Cut-off 
Elevation, 4.) Process Area 70; All Pre-cast Piles, and 5.) Admin Bldg Area 80; All Pre-cast Piles 
with the exception of the first row adjacent to the WWTP Structure (part of Phase 1 scope).
Yes
Yes
p
g
each Process Area.  Pile subcontractor acknowledges that fabrication of Production piles cannot 
start for that Process area until the Engineer approves the Indicator PDA report submittal for 
that Process Area.   This could result in significant downtime of mobilized equipment before 
Production Pile driving can start. 
Yes
Yes
Pile subcontractor to provide average productivity rates (piles/day) for each Pile Driving crew as 
part of the bid submittal.
Yes
Yes
Pile contractor to install rebar within casted dowel.  Timing of work needs to be coordinated with 
concrete subcontractor. If "No" is selected, please explain.
Yes
Yes
Subcontractor is responsible for stockpiling pre-drill soils.  Loading and haul-off will be done by 
others.  
 If "No" is selected, please explain.
Yes
Yes
Phase 1 Scope includes:  All Pre-cast piles not included in Phase 2 Scope plus 32 additional piles 
for Tower Crane foundations (not shown on drawings) 
Yes
Yes
Precast Piles will be installed over 2 phases with substantial downtime between them.  Pile 
subcontractor to demobilize equipment at the end of Phase 1 and re-mobilize for Phase 2 scope.
Yes
Yes
Subcontractor is responsible for on-site handling, loading, and the off-site disposal of all spoils 
and excess material resulting from this scope.   If "No" is selected, please explain.
No - Explanation: Reference question #33
No - Explanation: see proposal
Perform all activities related to the installation of drilled Prestressed Precast Driven Piles 
including but not limited to the drilling, supply and installation of piles, testing, and support 
equipment If "No" is selected, please explain.
Yes
Yes
Any required excavation plans, environmental plans, hazardous material plans and or other plans 
and certifications required to complete this scope of work.  If "No" is selected, please explain.
No  - Explanation: N/A
No  - Explanation: see proposal
Subcontractor shall coordinate on-site roadway usage and follow all required restrictions.  If "No" 
is selected, please explain.
Yes
No - Explanation: see proposal
It wil be the responsibility of the Subcontractor to coordinate wwork daily with stie supervision 
to prevent any delays that may be caused to other trades. If "No" is selected, please explain.
Yes
No - Explanation: see proposal
284 of 574

--- page 285 ---
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
12/19/2019
Project: San Mateo WWTP - GMP2 - Piles
Code: 3162 - Precast Prestressed Concrete Piles
11,375,247.50
$   
11,987,610.00
$   
General Information
Condon Johnson & Associates Inc.
Mike Lindsay
Yes
12/19/2019
Subcontractor Quote:
Foundation Constructors
Wyatt Gregory
Yes
12/19/2019
Companies:
Contact Name:
Phone:
Qualification:
Last Response Date:
Item Description
UOM
Quantity
$ Unit Price
$ Total
Quantity
$ Unit Price
$ Total
Initial Mobilization
LS
2
$60,000.00
120,000.00
$      
1
$152,640.00
152,640.00
$      
Mobilization - Additional 
LS
1
$60,000.00
60,000.00
$         
2
$55,000.00
110,000.00
$      
Primary Foundation Piles
Type 1 - Driven Piles
EA
1,504
                     
$5,000.00
7,520,000.00
$   
1,504.00
$5,090.00
7,655,360.00
$   
Type 2 - Driven Piles
EA
101
                         
$6,250.00
631,250.00
$      
101.00
$5,230.00
528,230.00
$      
Type 3 - Driven Piles
EA
152
                         
$6,562.50
997,500.00
$      
152.00
$5,980.00
908,960.00
$      
Type 4 - Driven Piles
EA
131
                         
$5,568.70
729,499.70
$      
131.00
$6,195.00
811,545.00
$      
Tower Crane Foundation Piles
Type 4 - Driven Piles
EA
32
                           
$5,568.70
178,198.40
$      
32.00
$6,195.00
198,240.00
$      
Yard Pipe Piles
Type 1 - Driven Piles
EA
13
                           
$5,000.00
65,000.00
$         
13.00
$5,090.00
66,170.00
$         
Additional Piles
Type 1 - Driven Piles
EA
5
                             
$5,000.00
25,000.00
$         
5.00
$5,090.00
25,450.00
$         
Type 4 - Driven Piles
EA
12
$5,568.70
66,824.40
$         
12
$6,195.00
74,340.00
$         
Demobilization
LS
0
INCL
-
$                    
1
$20,000.00
20,000.00
$         
Perimeter Sheet Piling - BioActiflo
LS
1
$211,000.00
211,000.00
$      
1
$287,000.00
287,000.00
$      
Storm Water Events
EA
12
$21,000.00
252,000.00
$      
12
$21,000.00
252,000.00
$      
Vibration Monitoring
LS
1
$117,450.00
117,450.00
$      
1
$117,450.00
117,450.00
$      
Survey and Layout
LS
1
INCL
-
$                    
1
$104,700.00
104,700.00
$      
Sound Mitigation 
LS
1
INCL
-
$                    
1
$274,000.00
274,000.00
$      
Pre and Post Construction Condition Surveys
LS
1
$16,500.00
16,500.00
$         
1
16,500.00
$         
16,500.00
$         
Pile Cut-off (Assuming 5%)
LS
1
$37,500.00
37,500.00
$         
1
$37,500.00
37,500.00
$         
Sound Wall Rental - 24' Tall
LS
1
$88,525.00
88,525.00
$         
1
$88,525.00
88,525.00
$         
Bid Breakdown
Number of Type 1 Piles: 
1522
1522
Number of Type 4 Piles: 
175
175
Number of Type 3 Piles: 
152
152
Pile subcontractor to submit a noise reduction plan for the Pile Driving operation.  This should 
include the anticipated noise level (dB) reduction and any supporting performance test data that 
support the stated reduction.
Yes
No
Number of Type 2 Piles: 
101
101
Pile sub noise reduction plan for the Pile Driving operation.  This should include the anticipated 
noise level (dB) reduction and any supporting performance test data that support the stated 
reduction.
Yes
No
285 of 574

--- page 286 ---
81 Big Break Rd, Oakley, CA  94561 - Telephone (925) 754-6633 - Fax (925) 625-5783   
Contractors Lic. No.270761A   DIR #1000005585 
  
GMP 2- Driven Precast Concrete Piling Bid 
 
Sundt Construction, Inc.    
Attn:  Doug Lenz/ Andre Castaneda 
 
 
Project Name: San Mateo WWTP Update and Expansion Project  
Project Address: San Mateo, CA 
PW # M83-17 
 
Issue Date: 12/16/2019  
 
Foundation Constructors Inc. (FCI) proposal in its entirety shall become a part of any subcontract agreement, should we be the 
successful bidder on this project. If there should be any conflict between these conditions and the subcontract, the terms and 
conditions of this proposal shall prevail.  
 
We propose to furnish all labor, materials, and equipment for the following: 
 
Installation of 1,950 each 16” SQ Precast concrete piles ranging between 80’-105’ long totaling 163,320 lf for the lump sum price 
of $10,442,000.00  
 
Project Inclusions: 
1. 
3 Single Rig Mobilizations (Equipment to remain onsite between all phases, see access requirments per qualifications) 
2. 
Furnish 1,950 each 16” SQ Precast concrete piles ranging between 80’-105’ long totaling 163,320 lf (Consiting of 1,1905 
Production piles, 32 Tower crane piles, 13 Yard piping piles) 
3. 
Installation of 1,950 16” SQ Precast concrete piles with hydraulic hammers with noise reduction shrouds 
4. 
10 Production Indicator Piles (to be installed in production locations) 
5. 
10 PDA load tests w/ restikes (to be completed on production piles) 
6. 
24” Ø Predrilling through Structural Stabilized Soil Section (SSSS) 
7. 
Backfilling/Grouting of 24” Ø predrilled annular space through SSSS with 200psi CLSM/Cement Grout (Annular space 
around pile to be grouted up to cuoff elevation, remainder of hole backfilled with drill spoils) 
8. 
14” Ø Predrilling beyond SSSS predrill depth (as required) 
9. 
Stockpile of drill spoils (Off Hauled and removed by others) 
10. 
Indicator Pile cut offs (1 cutoff per pile, 10 total)(see Unit price #4 and 5 for additional pricing) 
11. 
Furnish and installation of dowels (8 dowels per pile, 15,600 total) 
12. 
Furnish, installation, and removal of wood cushion blocks (2 per pile, 3,900 total) 
13. 
Flagging of pile and equipment deliveries.  
14. 
Pile Layout (as-builts by others) 
15. 
Engineering and Shop drawings  
16. 
Backfilling top of predrilled holes with access rock layer material.   
 
Project Exclusions: 
1. 
Noise and Vibration monitoring. 
2. 
Location and protection of utilities and adjacent structures. 
3. 
Traffic Control, Barricades, and Street Cleaning. (exluding flagging of deliveries) 
4. 
Excavation and shoring. (see Unit price #4) 
5. 
Dewatering of shoring and standing stormwater.   
6. 
Pile As-builts.  
7. 
Off haul and disposal of drill spoils.  
8. 
Off haul and disposal of Pile Cutoffs. (if required) 
9. 
Any/all permits will be provided by others 
10. 
Protection of any adjacent properties or structures from any damages caused by pile installation. 
11. 
3rd party testing, inspection services, and pile installation record keeping. 
12. 
Static load testing  
13. 
Production Pile cutoff (if required beyond indicator cutoff) 
286 of 574

--- page 287 ---
GMP 2- Driven Precast Concrete Piling Bid 
PW#M83-17  
Page 2 of 3 
 
14. 
Pile markers/Center dowel (if required by others) 
15. 
Workers Compensation and General liability insurance.  (to be provided in OCIP) 
 
Qualifications: 
1. 
All permits (excluding hauling permits) shall be by others. 
2. 
Piling shall be driven to specified tip or refusal, whichever comes first. 
3. 
All overhead or underground obstructions shall be removed by others prior to mobilization.  
4. 
Flat, level, firm all weather pad and access to be provided for all FCI equipment and support equipment. Maximum reach 
from center pin of equipment to center of pile locations not to exceed 25’.  Any ramp access must be mutually agreed upon 
prior to site mobilization and shall not exceed a slope of 1:10. Access roads to be provided by others, and must be a 
minimum of 25’ wide with a maximum grade of 5%. 
5. 
Adequate, mutually agreed upon staging area for stockpiling material and erecting our equipment shall be provided by 
General Contractor.  Access will be required onsite to store crane between phases, we will require a minimum of 30’x60’ to 
store our crane for this time.   
6. 
Pricing is based on working 8-hour shifts, Monday through Friday, between 7:00am and 5:00pm. 
7. 
General Contractor shall provide access and excavate a minimum of 50 piles for each mobilization of doweling crews.  
Each additional mobilization for doweling less than 50 piles will be charged at $1,500 day.  
8. 
Access must be allocated for stockpiling and staging of pile material before/during piling scope.  A minimum of 2 areas 
approximately 30’x110’ will be required onsite to maintain production schedules.  Full time Trucking lanes will also be 
required for the duration of the piling scope with a minimum of 13’ width and at least 1 entry and 1 exit.  
9. 
General contractor shall provide complete site access for duration of piling scope without interference from other trades 
with a safe “110 ft fall zone” buffer.   
10. This proposal is valid for 30 days.   
11. Price includes risk of materials, equipment, and labor escalation for scope of work described in this proposal.   
12. Material on Hand to be payed within 45 days of material delivery at 100% of material value.  Material value 
approximately 65% of full contract value.   
 
Unit Prices: 
1. Add $60,000 for each additional Driving rig required for production phase. 
2. Add $71/LF for additional pile length then the quantity listed above.  Price only valid prior to casting.   
3. Deduct $39/LF for subtracted pile length from the quantity listed above.  Price only valid prior to casting.   
4. Add $400 per each additional pile cutoff beyond the 14 indicator piles.  Price is good for cutoffs up to 5’ long.  
5. Add $800 per each additional pile cutoff beyond the 14 indicator piles.  Price is good for cutoffs longer than 5’. 
6. Add $211,000 to Furnish and install one 90’x34’ cofferdam for Area 2 Clarifier with a maximum retention Hight of 10’.  Price 
is based on temporary sheet pile shoring that is to be abandoned in place.  Sheet piles are not water tight.   
7. Deduct $85,000 to substitute a Diesel Hammer system with sound shroud instead of hydraulic hammer system.  Sound 
Shroud is still capable of reducing hammer noise levels by 8-9 dBA.  Diesel hammer system will also accelerate schedule by 
a minimum of one pile per day per crew over the hydraulic hammer system.   
8. Add $117,000 to Furnish and install one 10’x20’ cofferdam for Elevator pit shoring with a maximum retention Hight of 7’.  
Price is based on temporary sheet pile shoring that is to be abandoned in place.  Sheet piles are not water tight.   
 
Bid Documents: 
1. 
GMP-2 Drawings - Issued for Construction Set dated 10-28-19. 
2. 
Geotechnical Report prepared by HDR dated 07-03-2019.  
 
This proposal is subject to the following Foundation Constructors general terms and conditions: 
1. Prime contractor/owner shall provide at no cost to ourselves: 
a. Suitable all-weather roadways with level access and minimum 25 feet wide work areas.  All reaches are not to 
exceed 25 feet from center-pin to pile location (for truck/crawler cranes) and 10 feet from center pin to pile location 
(for drill rigs) without the use of mats.  Stock pile areas for materials will also be needed. 
b. Protection of any adjacent properties from any damages caused by pile driving vibration. 
c. 
Location and protection of utilities during pile driving operations, including all required USA notifications for piling. 
d. Testing and inspection services, pile driving record keeping, and all engineering and design.  No outside plant 
inspection. 
e. Public safety measures including flagmen and barricades, shoring or sloping shall be in accordance with O.S.H.A. 
and F.P.I. requirements. 
f. 
Permits. 
 
2. Prime contractor shall remove at no cost to ourselves: 
a. Any man-made or placed obstructions overhead or underground that interfere with pile driving operations, and pay 
our delay and/or extra work costs caused thereby.  Unless otherwise agreed, excavation will be done to pile cut-off 
prior to pile driving. 
 
3. Prices are based on: 
287 of 574

--- page 288 ---
GMP 2- Driven Precast Concrete Piling Bid 
PW#M83-17  
Page 3 of 3 
 
a. Driving all piles in 2 continuous operation(s) in the most efficient sequence and include(s) rig mobilization(s) as 
specified above. The price for additional mobilization of each crane rig shall be the lump sum of $ 65,000.00 each. 
Extra work or delay time costs calculated with labor and equipment rates provided in bid documents or $1050.00 
per pile driver hour. All back charges/claims must be signed by both parties. 
b. Our providing only the following insurance coverage for our operations in the following amounts: 
Workman’s Comp.:  Statutory   BI: $1,000,000.00   PD:  $1,000,000.00. 
c. 
Our performing our work under accepted prevailing local union labor conditions.  Any costs to us caused by your 
non-compliance with union conditions shall be for your account. 
d. Our working the standard shift Monday through Friday. 
e. Should local noise abatement regulations require us to work premium or shortened driving shifts, equipment 
modifications, change of operating methods, etc., we shall be reimbursed for our added costs. 
f. 
All pile locations must be a minimum of 30” from any non-removable structure to center of pile. 
 
4. Prices do NOT include the following: 
a. Cost of any payment and/or performance bond  
b. Pile extensions nor splices.  
c. 
Excavation and dewatering.    
d. Any liability for liquidated damages and liability for delays beyond our control to job schedule Job schedule must be 
accepted by Foundation in writing. We estimate that we can start 30 days after receipt of subcontract, approved shop 
drawing, notice to proceed, and materials. 
e. Indemnification and additional insurance – Prime contractor shall defend and indemnify Foundation from all claims, 
losses, damage and injury occurring due to, or arising out of, Items, risks, or work excluded by Foundation herein, 
including design defects. Any Additional insurance provided by Foundation shall exclude from defense and indemnity 
the prime contractor’s and/or owner’s own independent negligence, and all damages arising out of said excluded items, 
risks and work. Foundation reserves the right to maintain self-insured retentions and deductibles in amounts 
economically available in the insurance market and requires that any additional insured to pay same in advance as a 
condition of any tender to the insurance carrier providing additional insurance. 
f. 
Any pile that is broken or compromised by overdriving ordered by the owner/engineer shall be paid for as a completed 
pile. 
 
5. Payment for 95% of the work completed the preceding month shall be received by the 10th of the following month.  
Retension should be released at the end of the competeion of each phase and final retension shall be 30 days after last 
piles have been installed or November 2021. A charge of 1 ½ % per month (18% per year) will be charged on past due 
accounts.  Payment in full shall be made if a break in the continuity of the work exceeds thirty-five (35) days. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to quote this work.   
 
 
 
Accepted:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
Company 
 
By:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Foundation Constructors, Inc. 
 
 
Authorized Signature 
 
Title 
 
Date:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
Wyatt Gregory – Sr. Estimator
 
288 of 574

--- page 289 ---
Pile Subcontractor Foundation Constructors - Project Exclusions:  
1. Noise and Vibration monitoring.  Vibration monitoring is carried as a separate price in the bid abstract 
that will be provided by Municon.  Sundt will direct contract with Municon for these services.  The GMP-
2 Specs does not require Noise monitoring scope and has not been included in GMP-2. 
2. Location and protection of utilities and adjacent structures.  The Pile subcontractor is not responsible 
for excavation and locating utilities, only driving piles where the Engineer shows on the Contract 
Drawings.  The Pile subcontractor is relying on the Contract Drawings to identify all the underground 
utilities.   If an underground utility line is determined to be in proximity to a specified Pile location, 
potholing to physically locate it will be required.
3. Traffic Control, Barricades, and Street Cleaning. (excluding flagging of deliveries).  Escort vehicles and 
flagging for all piles and support equipment deliveries will be covered by Foundation Constructors.  Any 
additional site traffic control is carried in WC-0155 – Traffic Control.
4. Excavation and shoring. (see Unit price #4).  All excavation will be handled by Evans Brothers.  All 
shoring will be handled by Malcolm Drilling that was included in the GMP-1 scope. 
5. Dewatering of shoring and standing stormwater.   Dewatering and Treatment to be completed by 
Clear Creek.   Evacuation of standing stormwater was carried as a separate bid abstract item.  
6. Pile As-builts.  Survey and Layout will be provided by the Pile subcontractor.  Spec required Survey as-
built costs is carried in WC-0180 Survey
7. Off haul and disposal of drill spoils.  All disposal and haul-off of spoils is covered in the WC- 3100 
Earthwork scope and will be covered by Evans Brothers.
8. Off haul and disposal of Pile Cutoffs. (if required).  This scope of work is covered in WC-3100 by Evans 
Brothers.
9. Any/all permits will be provided by others.  Hauling permits will be obtained by the Pile 
subcontractor.  All other permits will be obtained by Sundt
10. Protection of any adjacent properties or structures from any damages caused by pile installation.  
Protection to utilities or adjacent structures is not included in Pile subcontractor scope and is not 
included in GMP-2.  
11. 3rd party testing, inspection services, and pile installation record keeping.  The Pile Subcontractor 
will conduct the PDA testing for the noted Indicator Piles on the Contract Drawings.  All 3rd Party testing 
inspections, and blow count record keeping will be covered by HDR and/or Jacobs and is not included in 
GMP-2
12. Static load testing.  Specifications only requires PDA testing.  Static Load testing is not required nor 
included in GMP-2.  
13. Production Pile cutoff (if required beyond indicator cutoff).  Pile Subcontractor has included cut-offs 
for all required Indicator Piles.  Sundt has included costs for cut-off of 5% of the Production Piles based 
on the recommendations from the Pile subcontractor and experiences on other projects.
14. Pile markers/Center dowel (if required by others).  A center dowel in the Pile was requested by 
Sundt to install temporary flags to visually identify the location of the piles.  It was determined this was 
not possible and this requirement was removed from the Bid documents. 
289 of 574

--- page 290 ---
3
(ajain@sundt.com) <ajain@sundt.com>; Matthew J. Tucker <mjtucker@sundt.com>; Regan Soldner 
(rsoldner@encgrp.com) <rsoldner@encgrp.com> 
Subject: GMP-2 RFI - Captured Notes from the 12/3 Teleconference 
  
All, 
  
Below is the updated minutes I captured from the review teleconference today.  I have a follow-up teleconference setup 
for tomorrow at 9:30 am to address some the listed items.  For the rest, please return responses back by end of this 
week.  
  
  
1.) Sundt constructability review recommends all Process Drain sumps to be changed to a consistent 48” ID and 72” 
OD.  This will require associated GMP-2  Drawing sheets and notes to be updated to reflect including revisions to 
Keyed Note 1 on Sheet 51S201, Keyed Note 2 on Sheet 52S202, and Keyed Note 1 on Sheet 56S203. As reviewed 
in a previous collaboration meeting with HDR/Jacobs,  the plan is to drill large diameter bores and install a 72” ID 
steel casing that will be utilized as the exterior form of the sump structure.   The drilling and steel casing 
installation will be executed in GMP-2.   The forming, rebar, and concrete for the sumps will be completed in 
GMP-3.    
Captured note(s):   Phoenix indicated this is approved and the drawings have been changed to reflect.  The 
changes will be released with the next formal release of the GMP-2 drawings.   Sundt will include pricing for such 
in GMP-2      12/9 Teleconference Update:   Item closed. 
  
2.) Validate that all items listed under Spec 31 62 13 Section 3.12 Pile Report requirements and Sheet 00S006 Pile 
Special Inspections and Observation Notes and Table are the responsibility of either HDR, Jacobs, or the 
City.  Sundt and Pile Subcontractor have not accounted for the cost of a 3rd Party Geotechnical Engineering 
services for these spec identified Inspections, Observations, and Reports. 
Captured note(s):   The interpretation above was validated.      12/9 Teleconference Update:   Item closed. 
  
3.) The RFC Spec 31 62 13 Section 3.6.A.1.c regarding filling the annular space between the 24” pre-drill hole and 
the 16” square pile now requires 4,000 PSI cementitious grout.   This increase from the 90% Specification will 
require the addition of aggregate triggering delivery by cement trucks as opposed to on-site mixing and pumping 
of grout, which will increase cost of the project and logistic challenges down in the hole due to cement truck 
deliveries.   The 90% GMP-2 Spec 31-62 13 Section 3.6.A.1.c requires 200 psi compressive strength for the filling 
of this annular space.  Validate if the prior 200 psi compressive strength can be used for backfill of the SSSS 
around the Piles.  If this remains at 4,000 PSI, that means concrete trucks will be required to come daily, 
potentially part loaded, to back-fill the Piles within the spec required 24 hour window.  Also,  GMP-1 Spec 31 23 
00 Section 2.1.A.4.c backfill material for the Structural Stabilized Soil Section (SSSS) requires 170 psi compressive 
strength.  Assumption is that GMP-1 Spec 31 23 00 Section 2.1.A.4.c will be utilized for SSSS backfill for all other 
backfill areas except the Pile backfill.  In summary, Sundt is requesting clarification on the specification 
requirements on backfill of the SSSS areas around Piles and any other areas that will require it. 
Captured note(s):   The RFC specification will be modified to a requirement of 200 PSI compressive 
strength.    12/9 Teleconference Update:   Item closed. 
  
4.) The RFC Spec 31 62 13 Section 3.6.D requires all Piles to be re-tapped.  This seems excessive and should be 
limited to the specified Piles designated as Indicator Piles.  This will impact production pile productivity levels 
and costs.   Validate the requirements regarding re-tapping. 
Captured note(s):   Phoenix will take another look at this.  This will be further discussed at the 12/4 
teleconference with Sundt/Foundation Constructors/Kie-Con.    12/9 Teleconference Update:   Foundation will 
circle back and re-tap the piles that have changed in elevation due to ground heaving.  This typically happens 
within days of the original install.  Item closed. 
  
Pile Driving RFI Clarifications
GMP 2 RFIs and Clarifications
290 of 574

--- page 291 ---
4
5.) RFC Spec 31 62 13 Section 1.4.B prohibits Pile Driving within 200 ft of any concrete that has not cured a 
minimum of 7 days.   This requirement will essentially require all Pile driving to be completed prior to Concrete 
Start as this 200 ft limitation covers a huge portion of the WWTP structure.  Please indicate the vibration level 
that is acceptable during concrete curing time and validate if the cure limitation period can be reduced from 7 
days.   Evaluate potential alternative to install vibration monitoring next to the concrete pour areas during the 
cure period to ensure max vibration levels are not exceeded rather than a fixed 200 ft offset requirement for 
simultaneous pile driving.  Spec 02 00 11 Section 3.3C identifies a max vibration level at 1.5” per second or 30 ft 
distance offset.  Sundt is requesting reconciliation of these 2 Specs.     This Spec limitation as currently written 
could potentially add 6-7 months to the Project Critical path and will extend the overall Project schedule and 
costs.   
Captured note(s):   Phoenix will take another look at these restrictions.  This will be further discussed at the 12/4 
teleconference with Sundt/Foundation Constructors/Kie-Con.  12/9 Teleconference Update:  Doug to provide 
Phoenix a copy of the Test Pile Vibration monitoring report.  Phoenix will review and make determination on this 
RFI #5.  Item is still open.   12/15 Update:  Phoenix will leave the 200 ft separation distance requirement in Spec 
31 62 13, but will include an exception in the revised RFC specs to allow in lieu a 30 ft separation plus Vibration 
Monitoring to ensure the first 4 days of Concrete Curing in Pour areas remain below 0.5” per second 
(PPV).   Phoenix will ensure Spec 02 00 11 Section 3.3C aligns with this.  Item closed.    12/16 Clarification.  HDR 
will leave the 200 ft separation distance and 7 day requirement in Spec 31 62 13, but will include an exception in 
02 00 11: 
 
Relax the 200 ft/7 day requirement to 30 ft/4 days, if vibration monitoring is performed. 
 
Vibration shall remain below 0.5” per second (PPV) within 200 ft.  
 
Pile driving within 30 ft cannot occur during the first 4 days of placement. 
 
Phoenix will ensure Spec 02 00 11 Section 3.3C aligns with this. 
   
6.) RFC Spec 31 62 13 Section 3.4.A, B, D Sections limits the start of Production Pile fabrication until after the 
submitted Indicator Pile Dynamic Testing (PDA) and CAPWAP analysis is submitted and approved by the Project 
Geotechnical Engineer (HDR).    These Spec Sections as written will require a delayed start of Production Piling 
by 3 months (1 month Indicator PDA Testing/CAPWAP Report development, 1 month HDR Submittal 
Review/approval, and 1 Month to Fabricate/Deliver Production Piles).  This 3 month period will add to the 
Project Critical path and extend the overall project schedule.  Sundt is requesting identification of areas (in the 
lower 90’ FFE  elevation, i.e Phase 1 Piles) that can rely on the previous Test Pile PDA results.    These “PDA non-
dependent” lower elevation areas will enable Production Piling to start simultaneously while the PDA Indicator 
testing is occurring.  These areas should include a minimum of 600 piles which will cover the typical production 
rate of a pile driving rig over the noted 3 months.    In summary, identify areas in the lower elevation that 
Production Piling can immediately start in advanced of the PDA testing.  In addition, identify specific areas tied 
to each Indicator pile that cannot be completed until those Specific PDA’s are approved.  Suggest some color 
mapping illustrating these areas utilizing Sheet 00S041. 
Captured note(s):  Ed thinks this it is doable to define areas that Production Piles are not tied to the Indicator 
Pile test results.  This will be further discussed at the 12/4 teleconference with Sundt/Foundation 
Constructors/Kie-Con.  12/9 Teleconference Update:  Ed provided resolution on this via separate email with 
areas color coded that allow Production Piling to start in advance of the results of the Indicator Pile testing 
information.   Item is closed. 
  
7.) RFC Spec 31 62 13 Section 3.4.C Pile Dynamic Testing (PDA) requirement and development of the CAPWAP 
analysis is assumed to be completed by Sundt/Foundation Constructors.  Validate if this is the responsibility of 
Sundt/Pile Subcontractor.. 
Captured note(s):   This was validated… Sundt to include this work in Foundations Constructors scope.    12/9 
Teleconference Update:   Item is closed. 
  
8.) RFC Spec 31 62 13 Section 1.1.C Unit Prices section has the potential to contradict with the Commercial terms of 
the Pile Subcontract.  Sundt plans to utilize a lump sum contract and not unit pricing as inferred in this 
291 of 574

--- page 292 ---
5
specification.  Sundt suggests that the Spec should only focus on the technical aspects of the Pile Driving and 
recommends this section be deleted from the Specs.   
Captured note(s):   Phoenix will take another look at these restrictions.  This will be further discussed at the 12/4 
teleconference with Sundt/Foundation Constructors/Kie-Con    12/9 Teleconference Update:  Phoenix will 
review this internally with HDR folks.   Item is still open. 12/15 Update:  Specification 31 62 13 Section 1.1.C can 
stand as written.  Item is closed.   
  
  
9.) RFC Spec 31 62 13 Section 1.5B limits delivery of piles after 28 days of curing.  Piles are normally transported and 
delivered at 14 day cure time.  The longer required cure time is going to present logistics issues at the Pile 
Fabricator yard.  Sundt is requesting this spec section to be changed to 14 days.  Actual driving of the Pile will 
not occur to the 28 Day cure period expires as noted on Sheet 00S006 Pile Design Schedule Note 2.C. 
Captured note(s):   Phoenix will take a look at this spec section and consider.  12/9 Teleconference Update:  The 
specification as written will be fine.   Kie-Con will not ship Piles until they have met the equivalent structural 
capacity of a 28 day cure.   This is often obtained within 14 days.   Item is closed. 
  
10.) Pile subcontractor/fabricator has submitted proposal assuming that RFC Spec 31 62 13 Section 2.3.A.7 Air 
Entrainment will not be required.  Requesting validation. 
Captured note(s):   Phoenix will take a look and determine if Air Entrainment is needed. This will be further 
discussed at the 12/4 teleconference with Sundt/Foundation Constructors/Kie-Con   12/9 Teleconference 
Update:  Natural air entrainment is 1.5-2.0%.   This should be sufficient.   Phoenix will modify the 
specification.   Item is closed. 
  
11.) Pile subcontractor/fabricator has submitted proposal assuming that RFC Spec 31 62 13 Section 2.7.C Cylinder 
testing frequency can change from the Spec required every 15 CY to 25 CY.  Requesting validation. 
Captured note(s):   Phoenix will take a look and determine if the Cylinder Testing frequency can be 
reduced.  This will be further discussed at the 12/4 teleconference with Sundt/Foundation Constructors/Kie-Con. 
Teleconference Update:  Cylinder testing frequency of once every 25 CY is approved.   Phoenix will modify the 
specification.   Item is closed. 
  
12.) PDA indicator Pile #53-P97 on Sheet 53S201 is located within the deeper elevation Actiflo Process Area.  In order 
to conduct PDA testing at this location, the Pile will need to be casted longer, PDA testing completed and 
subsequently cut-off to the final elevation level. Validate there are no issues with conducting a PDA test on this 
Indicator Pile in that manner.  Alternatively, designate an adjacent Production pile as a replacement Indicator 
Pile that is not located in the recessed elevation areas. 
Captured note(s):   Ed will take a look and determine if some adjustments can be made. This will be further 
discussed at the 12/4 teleconference with Sundt/Foundation Constructors/Kie-Con  12/9 Teleconference 
Update:  Ed provided resolution on this via separate email.  This Indicator pile will be relocated north 2 
rows.  HDR will change on Drawing Package.   Item is closed. 
  
13.) Indicator Pile #64-P11 is within close proximity of  the original Test Pile #1.  Can PDA data and CAPWAP analysis 
be used from the prior Test Pile effort in lieu of conducting a new PDA test?  Similar question for Indicator Pile 
#52- P4.  
Captured note(s):  Ed will take a look and determine if some adjustments can be made. This will be further 
discussed at the 12/4 teleconference with Sundt/Foundation Constructors/Kie-Con  12/9 Teleconference 
Update:  Ed provided resolution on this via separate email.  This Indicator pile is required.   Item is closed. 
  
14.) Based upon Pile Driver Hammer Impact Energy of 55,317 lb-ft applied to the formula in Section 3.2.A.2.b. in Spec 
02 00 11, the spec requires survey and monitoring 118’ ft away from the perimeter piles on a daily basis while 
Pile driving.    Inspection and documentation of all structures within 59’ of the perimeter piles is required by a 
Specialty Engineer before and after pile driving. Sundt is requesting additional clarification of how many survey 
points are required including the frequency as suggested in Section 3.2.A.3.    
292 of 574

--- page 293 ---
6
Captured note(s):  Jennifer and HDR to review specification and provide clarity on what is actually specified 
compared to what is needed regarding Preconstruction Surveys, Surveying Points, Vibration Monitoring, and 
Noise Monitoring  12/9 Teleconference Update:  Need to review expectations on this with Jacobs/PMO.   Item is 
still open.  12/15 Update:  See attached Monitoring and Mitigation Plan.    Monitoring points and frequencies, 
including Facility Pre and Post Condition assessments, will be executed per the attached Monitoring and 
Mitigation Plan.  Item is closed. 
  
15.) Based upon interpretation of Section 3.2.A.2.a in Spec 02 00 11 and the fact that this project does have Pile 
Driving, this section does not apply to this project and Section 3.2.A.2.b does.   This changes the influence radius 
from 200’ down to 118’ radius.  Requesting validation on this interpretation.   
Captured note(s):  Jennifer and HDR to review specification and provide clarity on what is actually specified 
compared to what is needed regarding Preconstruction Surveys, Surveying Points, Vibration Monitoring, and 
Noise Monitoring.   12/9 Teleconference Update:  Need to review expectations on this with Jacobs/PMO.   Item 
is still open.  12/15 Update:  See attached Monitoring and Mitigation Plan.    Monitoring points and frequencies, 
including Facility Pre and Post Condition assessments, will be executed per the attached Monitoring and 
Mitigation Plan.  Item is closed. 
  
16.)  Sundt suggests that the existing Test Piles be identified on the GMP-2 RFC Pile drawing sheets to understand 
relative locations to the new piles.  These are permanent obstructions that need to be avoided. 
Captured note(s):  Phoenix indicated this will be included on the Pile Drawings.  The changes will be released 
with the next formal release of the GMP-2 drawings.   12/9 Teleconference Update:   This will be included on the 
drawings.  Item is closed. 
  
  
17.) Regarding the Pile Design Schedule Notes and Pile Design Schedule on Sheet 00S006 the following feed back was 
provided by the Pile Subcontractor Foundation Constructors.  Review and provide subsequent direction on this.
  
Captured note(s):  Phoenix is aware of these comments.  This will be further discussed at the 12/4 
teleconference with Sundt/Foundation Constructors/Kie-Con.  12/9 Teleconference Update:  This has been 
discussed.  No resulting change required.  Item is closed. 
  
  
18.) Regarding the Pile Design Schedule Notes and Pile Design Schedule on Sheet 00S006, do all piles in the schedule 
require adherence to Note 4?  Previous discussions indicated that there were some piles in the schedule where 
this doesn’t have to apply to. Requesting clarification on what piles Note 4 does not apply to. 
Captured note(s):  This is related to Comment #17, Item D.  This will be further discussed at the 12/4 
teleconference with Sundt/Foundation Constructors/Kie-Con  12/9 Teleconference Update:  This has been 
discussed.  No resulting change required.  Item is closed. 
  
19.) Items included in the 12/12/19 email from HDR (Phoenix) included the following: 
 
We are adding 12 – Type 4 piles at the south of the headworks to support the slab that supports the 
above grade piping.  (GMP-3 100% design progression) 
 
We are adding 5 – Type 1 piles at the expanded southern slab area of the chemical sodium hypochlorite 
area. (Title 22 implementation) 
 
We are transposing the coordinates in the Northing and Easting columns on the pile schedules for all 
structures except Admin Bldg.  (PMO comment) 
293 of 574

--- page 294 ---
7
 
We are adding survey control points to GMP-2 drawings to match GMP-1. (PMO Comment) 
 
Some administrative numbering of the piles will be modified in some areas, so they are 
sequential.  (Permit comment and to accommodate new piles in Item 1 and 2 above) 
 
Additional 1 ½” turn of spirals will be shown, and annotated at each end of the piles. (Permit comment)
 
Items discussed in GMP-2 RFI #10 will be incorporated.  (Contractor input) 
12/15 Update:  The first 2 bullet items impacts the pile cost.  Foundation Constructors is working on submitting a 
revised proposal to add these additional 17 piles which will be included in the GMP-2 resubmittal to the 
City/PMO.  Bullet items 3-6 are anticipated to be changed on the final RFC GMP-2 release.  Sundt will includes all 
the final response items recorded in this RFI #10 into the GMP-2 revised submittal package under the 
assumption that all response items will be incorporated in the final GMP-2 RFC release drawings and specs.   
  
Douglas Lenz, PE 
Sr. Project Manager 
 
o: 480.293.3004 
c:  480.231.9714 
e: ddlenz@sundt.com 
a:  2620 S. 55th Street, Tempe, AZ 85282 
  
 
 
  
  
294 of 574

--- page 295 ---
Page 1 of 3 
( 4 1 5 )   6 4 1 ‐ 2 5 7 0           2 2 0 0   J e r r o l d   A v e n u e ,   S u i t e   K ,   S a n   F r a n c i s c o ,   C A   9 4 1 2 4  
m u n i c o n @ m u n i c o n . n e t  
December 10, 2019 
Proposal No. 1341 
 
Doug Lenz 
 
Sundt Construction 
2620 S. 55th Street 
Tempe, AZ 85282 
 
Re:  
Proposal for Pre and Post Construction Condition Surveys 
 
San Mateo Waste Water Treatment Plant ‐ Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow 
Management Upgrade and Expansion Project 
 
San Mateo, California 
 
Dear Doug, 
 
Municon West Coast, Inc. is pleased to present this proposal to provide Photo/Video Documentation for 
the San Mateo Waste Water Treatment Plant Upgrades Project. The planned improvements comprise of 
constructing new process facilities to meet future flows and loads.  Substructure foundations will include 
over 2,000 precast concrete piles. 
 
PHOTO/VIDEO CONDITION SURVEYS 
 
We will provide a comprehensive existing conditions survey of the exteriors of buildings within 200 feet 
of precast concrete piles, as required in Specification 02 00 11 3.1D “Pre‐ and Post‐Construction Surveys.”   
We will conduct inspections of existing conditions and document observations with videos and photos. 
We have identified eleven (11) facilities/structures at the existing Waste Water Treatment facility, and 
ten (10) buildings at the All‐American Self Storage facility that should be included in this survey (Figure 1). 
 
Our  comprehensive  surveys  will  include 
observations of anomalies such as existing 
cracks,  settlements  and  other  defects.  
Defects observed during the survey will be 
documented  with  digital  photographs  and 
videos along with notes and sketches.  You 
should make arrangements for us to access 
the facilities to be included in the surveys.  
 
The costs for the Pre‐ and Post‐Construction 
Surveys  are  summarized  in  Table  1.    Our 
prices for this service include photographer’s 
field 
time, 
travel 
time, 
processing, 
annotation,  generation  of  the  index  of 
images, and assembly of the work product. 
Figure 1. Facilities/structures to be surveyed outlined in red.    
 
295 of 574

--- page 296 ---
Page 2 of 3 
( 4 1 5 )   6 4 1 ‐ 2 5 7 0           2 2 0 0   J e r r o l d   A v e n u e ,   S u i t e   K ,   S a n   F r a n c i s c o ,   C A   9 4 1 2 4  
m u n i c o n @ m u n i c o n . n e t  
We will provide photographs as electronic images with date taken and other annotations embedded into 
the images.  Separate videos will be recorded for each structure and will display time and date in the 
corner of the video image.  Our work products will include digital copies of the original and annotated 
photographs,  and  video  recordings  saved  to  a  USB flash  drive.    Photograph  annotations  will include 
photograph  unique  identifiers,  photo  number,  address  of  the  survey  location,  identity  of  the 
photographer, date and time of the photograph, and a brief description of the conditions observed.  We 
will not provide hard copies/prints of the photos. 
 
Table 1 – Pre‐ and Post‐Construction Condition Surveys 
Item 
Unit Cost 
Quantity 
Line Total 
Prepare Existing Conditions Survey Work Plan 
$1,500 
1 
$1,500 
Perform Pre‐construction Surveys 
$7,500 
1 
$7,500 
Perform Post‐construction Surveys 
$7,500 
1 
$7,500 
Subtotal 
$16,500 
TOTAL 
$16,500 
 
 
We are happy to discuss any of the assumptions we have made and clarify any of the information herein. 
We look forward to the opportunity to work with you on this project. 
 
Yours truly, 
Municon West Coast, Inc. 
reviewed by 
 
   
 
                                            
 
Tommy Poole, P.G.  
Anthony Argyriou, PE, GE 
 
Senior Project Geologist 
Senior Engineer 
 
 
296 of 574

--- page 297 ---
Page 3 of 3 
( 4 1 5 )   6 4 1 ‐ 2 5 7 0           2 2 0 0   J e r r o l d   A v e n u e ,   S u i t e   K ,   S a n   F r a n c i s c o ,   C A   9 4 1 2 4  
m u n i c o n @ m u n i c o n . n e t  
TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
1. Municon West Coast, Inc. holds DIR #1000059972 but by definition provide “exempt” consulting 
services. 
2. We are not a contractor, labor, trade nor union signatory. No certified payrolls. 
3. Payment within 30 days of invoicing. No retention. 
4. Municon West Coast, Inc. offers to provide the insurance coverages it presently holds up to its 
existing limits, at all times the scope of work is being performed. 
5. No indemnification of any person’s active negligence. 
6. We request a minimum of five days to review the contract agreements offered by you, the insurance 
requirements, and an allowance of a minimum 72 hours to receive any certificates of insurance. 
7. Access arrangements to be provided by project owner unless explicitly offered herein. 
8. These unit price rates for equipment deployments/removals, use, reports, and maintenance apply if 
durations exceed projected durations. Rates are not pro‐rated. 
9. Unless specifically called for or explicitly offered herein, written interpretations or professional 
opinions, and other data reports are not included. 
297 of 574

--- page 298 ---
Corporate Office: Hawthorne, California 
Carson, California ~ Aledo, Texas ~ Napa, California ~ Longmont, Colorado ~ McDonald, Pennsylvania ~ Calgary, Canada 
Phone 800-679-8633 ~ Fax 310-331-1538 
www.environmental-noise-control.com ~ www.drillingnoisecontrol.com  
Behrens and Associates, Inc. 
Environmental Noise Control 
December 16, 2019 
Sundt Construction 
2620 South 55th Street 
Tempe, AZ. 85282 
Attention: 
Doug Lenz; ddlenz@sundt.com 
From: 
Jeff Obermeyer – Behrens and Associates, Environmental Noise Control 
Subject: 
San Mateo Wastewater 16 ft high by 320 LF with gate STC-32 Proposal 
Doug, 
 
We have prepared the following cost proposal for the delivery, installation, rental, removal and 
return of a dual k-rail mounted 16 feet high STC-32 soundwall system for your Wastewater project in San 
Mateo, CA. This proposal is turnkey and includes K-rail and a 20 foot wide gate system. 
ACOUSTICAL MATERIALS AND SYSTEMS RENTAL 
with TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
16 feet high Dual K-Rail Sound Wall 
1. Freight / Delivery of temporary sound wall materials including K-rail to site in San Mateo, CA.:
 ................................................................................................................................................ $6,240.00 
2. Installation of 320 linear feet by 16 feet high ENC Style STC-32 acoustical blanket sound wall.:
 .............................................................................................................................................. $24,200.00 
3. Monthly Rental of 320 linear feet by 16 feet high ENC Style STC-32 acoustical blanket sound wall. 
Includes concrete k-rail barriers, k-rail verticals, panels, straps and clamps and a 20 foot wide gate. 
320 linear feet of 16 feet high sound wall @ $36.00 per linear foot: ................ $11,520.00 per month 
4. Monthly Sales and Use Tax on rental for San Mateo, CA @ 9.25%: ............... $1,065.60 per month 
5. Removal of 320 linear feet by 16 feet high ENC Style STC-32 acoustical blanket sound wall:
 .............................................................................................................................................. $22,800.00 
6. Freight / Return of temporary sound wall materials to BAENC: ........................................ $6,240.00 
7. Engineering and Calculation Package: Site specific structural engineering and calculation package 
for 16 foot high system at your project located in San Mateo, CA: ........................................ $6,980.00 
Notes: 
Terms Net 30 Days. Quote valid for 30 days. Permits by others. Lead time engineering 2-3 weeks. Lead time materials 2-3 weeks.  
Requires quantity (30) 20-foot-long k-rails (type K) provided by BAENC. K-rail delivered by and placed in position by BAENC. 
Minimum 3-month rental. Freestanding portable panels are not designed for high wind conditions and may require additional 
structural support to meet wind loading requirements. No retention allowed. Prevailing wages for installation and removal included. 
For questions or concerns, please contact: 
Jeff Obermeyer, West Coast - jobermeyer@baenc.com – Direct (310) 765-7355 or (310) 663-4516 
Hawthorne Office: 13806 Inglewood Ave, Hawthorne, CA 90250 – Phone (310) 679-8633     
PROPOSAL APPROVAL 
To proceed, please complete this section 
and return via email to caops@baenc.com 
Approved by: 
 
PO or AFE #: 
 
Date: 
 
298 of 574

--- page 299 ---
Corporate Office: Hawthorne, California 
Carson, California ~ Aledo, Texas ~ Napa, California ~ Longmont, Colorado ~ McDonald, Pennsylvania ~ Calgary, Canada 
Phone 800-679-8633 ~ Fax 310-331-1538 
www.environmental-noise-control.com ~ www.drillingnoisecontrol.com  
Behrens and Associates, Inc. 
Environmental Noise Control 
2019 
Terms and Conditions 
The Lessor hereby rents to the Customer sound control systems, including but not limited to, sound walls, blankets, enclosures, equipment, 
sound measurement and monitoring instrumentation systems, and accessories described in the proposal, which are subject to the provisions 
of this Agreement. “Customer” refers to the company renting from Lessor, Behrens and Associates, Inc., dba Environmental Noise Control 
(“BAENC”) and any other person or organization to which charges are billed: his employer, partner, or representative all of whom shall be jointly 
and severally liable hereunder. The above referenced equipment is the property of Lessor, except as otherwise provided herein, and shall be 
returned or released by the Customer in the same condition as received, excluding ordinary wear and tear, on the day specified or sooner upon 
Lessor's demand. 
The equipment shall be a used solely in Customer's business and be kept only at its place of business or job site and shall not be moved without 
prior written consent of Lessor. The Customer shall call the Lessor when it is ready to return the equipment. The customer shall be responsible 
for securing equipment from loss, theft, and/or damage until picked up by the Lessor. 
With respect to equipment or any other rentals, all loss, or damage thereto, from any cause whatsoever while in the Customer’s care, custody 
and control, whether or not due to the fault of the Customer, including but not limited to fire, flood, winds with speeds above the International 
Building Code standards, theft, comprehensive losses and Acts of God, shall be the sole responsibility of the customer and shall be charged 
back to the customer and paid to Lessor promptly upon receipt. Quoted prices are based on the location being ready on the specified day; that 
the customer has on-site security to protect equipment and material and the customer’s site management has been briefed on the noise mitigation 
installation process. Rent is based on a minimum of 30 days. This quote presumes the installer will be able to augur pier holes in penetrable 
soil, with no underground or overhead obstructions. If rock drilling, Hydro-Excavation, or any other special installation techniques are required 
there will be additional charges of the direct cost plus 30%. If the customer requires our crew to work overtime the overtime cost will be charged 
back to the customer at cost plus 30%. Delays, worker waiting time or changes to the original structure quoted, not within the installer’s 
purview, will be billed back to the customer, i.e. wall additions or changes requiring additional auguring, transportation costs and labor costs. 
A minimum of seven (7) calendar days is required prior to mobilizing on site.  Requests to mobilize outside of the required time period, may 
result in additional costs. Lessor will in no event have liabilities for damages as a result of supplying equipment or its use of the same or 
furnishing of any service hereunder.   Customer shall furnish underground utility locations or pay for underground utility locations provided 
by Lessor.  Lessor is not responsible for any loss or damage caused by installation of equipment after underground utility locations have been 
identified and work is completed within a reasonable time thereafter whether caused in whole or in part by the negligence or fault of BAENC. 
In the event of a loss, theft, or damage to equipment, Customer agrees to notify Lessor immediately by telephone and thereafter to promptly 
report in writing to Lessor and the public authorities (where required by law or by Lessor) all information relating thereto. Customer shall cause 
its agents and employees to give the Lessor and public authorities full access of information and assistance in the investigation and prosecution 
of any matter resulting from said loss, theft, or damage. 
The Customer will indemnify, save harmless and defend BAENC, its employees and contractors, all liability and expense for loss, damage, 
death or injury to person or property in any manner arising from, or is incident to, the use of this equipment regardless of whether caused in 
whole or in part by the negligence or fault of BAENC. 
Customer will maintain a commercial or comprehensive general liability insurance including but not limited to premises operations, 
products/completed operations, contractual liability and independent contractors and personal injury.  Such policy shall name Lessor as 
additional insured with respect to premises operations and completed operations and be primary and non-contributing with any insurance 
maintained by Lessor. Any failure of performance by Lessor which is due to a cause beyond Lessor’s control, including, but not limited to, acts 
of civil or military authority, Acts of God, labor difficulties, and failure of transportation, shall not be deemed a default by Lessor. Should 
Customer fail to pay any invoice to Lessor or in accordance with the terms of the Lessor’s invoice, customer shall pay to Lessor, interest on 
such delinquent payment until paid at the lesser of 10% or the maximum rate allowable by the laws of the jurisdiction in which Lessor’s branch 
office renting the equipment, is located. In addition to the rental payments called for in the proposal to furnish equipment, the Customer shall 
pay all taxes or impositions of any nature or kind imposed upon this transaction, (excluding only state and federal income taxes of BAENC) 
including but not limited to sales or use taxes, real property taxes or assessments, personal property taxes or assessments, and fixture or 
inventory taxes, regardless of how denominated or computed, regardless of the party upon whom the taxes are imposed, and irrespective of the 
timing or frequency of such assessments. Customer shall pay such amounts prior to delinquency upon receipt of a notice from the taxing 
authority or within ten (10) days of receipt of a notice from BAENC. The Customer shall also pay any interest or penalties assessed or imposed 
with respect to any tax or assessment which is not timely satisfied unless the cause of the default or delinquency giving rise to the interest or 
penalty is the failure of BAENC to provide timely notice to Customer. Customer agrees that subscription service charges necessary for timely 
payment of invoices may be subject to a change order and billed back to the customer. 
To the extent permitted by applicable law, Customer hereby waives any and all rights and remedies granted to customer by article 2A of the 
Uniform Commercial Code.   
 
 
299 of 574

--- page 300 ---
Learn more about commercial noise control at
www.environmental-noise-control.com or call us at 1-800-679-8633
ENVIRONMENTAL
ENTERTAINMENT
CONSTRUCTION
INDUSTRIAL
OIL & GAS
TEMPORARY 
ACOUSTICAL 
NOISE BARRIER 
SYSTEMS
Designed to provide
optimum sound control 
in blocking 
and absorbing 
unwanted noise.
ACOUSTICAL K-RAIL / JERSEY 
BARRIER MOUNTED SOUND WALL
ENC’s K-Rail/Jersey barrier mounted sound walls allow for quick and easy 
positioning and movement througout the site to provide a flexible noise control 
solution for mobile equipment or operations.  The K-Rail/Jersey mounted barrier 
panels can be customized to meet your needs, with heights  from 8-16 feet.  This 
product line is an effective solution if the site does not allow earth boring.
BARRIER BLANKET SPECIFICATIONS 
• Sound Transmission Class rated STC-25, 32 & 43 in accordance with ASTM E-413
• Engineered to meet IBC Wind Load requirements
• Flame Retardant to California Fire Marshall F-419.01 Specifications
	 Length of Char: 3.5, After Flame: 2 Seconds
• Working Temperature: -40 °F to +200 °F
• Oil resistant, UV resistant, Fiber-Free, Anti-Fungal, Self-Drying Poly-Vinyl Chloride Outer Shell 
with specially developed inner core septum barrier
FREESTANDING ACOUSTICAL PANELS ARE NOT INTENDED FOR USE IN HIGH WIND 
CONDITIONS WITHOUT A SUPPORTING STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS
300 of 574

--- page 301 ---
At the heart of our temporary sound wall is our Environmental 
Noise Control (ENC) acoustical noise barrier panel system, which is 
manufactured using state-of-the-art acoustical composite materials. 
Our sound panels are fabricated with a polyvinyl-chloride coated 
outer shell, multiple layers of noise absorbing and blocking material 
and feature a specially developed septum barrier inner core. The 
ENC temporary sound wall system is available from 6 to 40 ft. high.
For more information on our quality products or possible 
applications, please see our website or call to speak with 
one of our ENC representatives. Rapid engineering and 
deployment response is available worldwide.
CORPORATE OFFICE 
Hawthorne, CA
REGIONAL OFFICES & FIELD OPERATIONS
Aledo, TX; Carson, CA; Firestone, CO
Napa, CA; Shreveport, LA; Washington, PA
Calgary, Alberta
1 (800) 679 8633  |  International +1 310 679 8633  |  www.environmental-noise-control.com
TEMPORARY NOISE 
BARRIER PANEL 
SYSTEM
The modular design of ENC’s temporary 
sound panel systems meets or exceeds 
code requirements.
An independent acoustical laboratory has conducted tests in 
accordance with ASTM E-90 and ASTM E-413 requirements, to measure 
sound transmission loss and validating the Sound Transmission Class 
rating of STC-25, STC-32 and STC-43. The ENC composite barrier/
absorber blankets, which are laboratory tested and certified, meet or 
exceed the specifications in the Sound Transmission Loss Data Table.
FREE 
STANDING
AUGERED 
STRUCTURE
Sound Transmission Loss (dB)
% Octave Band 
Center Frequency
63 Hz
80 Hz
100 Hz
125 Hz
160 Hz
200 Hz
250 Hz
315 Hz
400 Hz
500 Hz
630 Hz
800 Hz
1000 Hz
1250 Hz
1600 Hz
2000 Hz
2500 Hz
3150 Hz
4000 Hz
5000 Hz
STC 25
Transmission Loss
8 dB
10 dB
11 dB
10 dB
7 dB
7 dB
11 dB
17 dB
23 dB
28 dB
33 dB
36 dB
39 dB
41 dB
41 dB
40 dB
41 dB
44 dB
46 dB
50 dB
STC 32
Transmission Loss
16 dB
20 dB
18 dB
16 dB
16 dB
17 dB
19 dB
23 dB
26 dB
32 dB
34 dB
35 dB
35 dB
36 dB
36 dB
36 dB
37 dB
39 dB
40 dB
43 dB
Temporary Sound Panel Systems
301 of 574

--- page 302 ---
—GMP2 Risk Matrix



--- page 303 ---
GMP-2 Risk Summary - Owner Contingency
  
Item
Risk
Description
Probability of Risk 
Occurrence 
Cost Impact of 
Occurrence
Schedule Impact of 
Occurrence
Recommended Owner's 
Contingency  Amount
1
Unknown Subsurface 
Conditions
With 1,950 precast concrete piles to drive, there is a relatively high potential that some buried 
obstructions (concrete, trees, other debris) will be encountered subsurface when driving piles. 
High
Medium
Medium
$450 K
2
Additional Sound Mitigation
Cost for additional noise attenuation measures that may be required.  This includes perimeter 
extension of the Temporary Sound Wall beyond what is included  in the GMP for the West site 
boundary.
Medium
Medium
Medium
$125 K
3
Additional Piles to support Yard 
Piping/Miscellaneous
Potential that additional Yard Piping Piles will be needed and/or other Miscellaneous Piles to 
support perimeter site walls, gates, light poles, and slabs.
Medium
Medium
Medium
$175 K
4
Groundwater/Stormwater 
Constituents
NPDES Discharge Permit and Dewatering Treatment system designed  based upon Groundwater 
analysis and reports performed by Owner's Environmental Engineer.  Potential that actual 
groundwater contaminants could vary over time. Impact of Lime Subbase Stabilization on 
Groundwater and Stormwater that is conveyed to the Dewatering Treatment System is 
unknown.  Potential risk of Lime Stabilized Subbase raising Stormwater alkalinity levels that 
could create Chromium VI issues.
Medium
Medium
High
$100 K
5
Post RFC Pile Design Addendum 
Releases  
Contingency funds to cover potential scope changes from post RFC Pile Design 
Addendums/Directives.
Medium
Medium
Medium
$20 K
6
 Owner Directed Scope Adds 
and Changes  
Owner directed GMP-2 scope adds and changes
Medium
Medium
Medium
$250 K
7
High Intensity Rainfall Event 
and/or Season
Contingency funds to deal with extreme rainfall events and/or an extreme rain fall season.  Cost 
includes associated additional Stormwater pumping and Dewatering Treatment capacity to 
enable extreme event stormwater evacuation from the site, along with other impacts on 
construction productivity.  Quick evacuation of standing stormwater is critical to mitigate 
potential of the Lime Stabilized Subbase raising the water alkalinity levels that could create 
Chromium VI issues.
High
Medium
High
$250 K
8
 Additional Pile Cut-offs  
Potential that a significant amount of piles will require cut-off in the field that end up exceeding 
the 5% carried within the GMP amount.  Cost carried represents the amount to increase this 
occurrence to 10% of the Piles.
Medium
Medium
Medium
$50 K
9
Indicator Pile                  
PDA Field Testing Results
Indicator Pile PDA Field Testing could reveal the requirement to lengthen Piles in select areas of 
the site. Owner Contingency carried to cover Pile Subcontractor quoted $71/ln ft additional 
costs.  Assumed 500 piles requiring 5 ft additional length (plus markups).
Medium
Medium
Medium
$200 K
10
Community Outreach
Cost carried to fund Community Outreach type activities to proactively communicate GMP-2 
scope and impacts on the surrounding neigborhoods and to sustain outreach effort through the 
GMP-2 duration.
Medium
Medium
Medium
$25 K
$1,645 K
GMP-2 - Total Owner Contingency
&nbsp;
303 of&nbsp;574

--- page 304 ---
Legend
Ground Settlement Survey Monitoring (10 locations 407-416)
Vibration Monitoring Points (4 locations, V1-V4)
Groundwater Level Observation Well (4 locations, P1-P4)
Sound Measurement Points (5 locations, S1-S5)
CSM Shoring/Groundwater Cut-off Wall Perimeter
Boundary limits of Pre and Post Condition Surveys
Phase 1 Pile Driving – 24 ft. High Sound Wall
Phase 2 Pile Driving – 16 ft High  Sound Wall
Phase 2 Pile Driving – 16 ft High Sound Wall Extension (if req’d)
General Notes
1.
This plan outlines Pre and Post Condition Surveys, Ground 
Settlement Survey Monitoring, Vibration Monitoring, Sound 
Monitoring, Groundwater Monitoring, and employed mitigation 
measures for noise and groundwater drawdown.
2.
Ground Level monitoring points will be surveyed 3 days/week for 
the first 3 months of Pile Driving and then reduce to once a month 
to monitor potential surface settlement or heave.
3.
Continuous Vibration Monitoring to ensure Peak Particle Velocity 
(PPV) remains below 1.0 in/sec at measuring points.
4.
Groundwater Level will be continuously monitored and recorded 
at the recently installed perimeter Observation Wells.
5.
Pre-Condition Survey of adjacent facilities to be performed and 
documented 30 days prior to Pile Driving start.  A Post-Condition 
survey will occur after Pile Driving completion.
6.
Sound walls will be installed to align with Phase 1 Pile Driving 
(lower elevations) and Phase 2 Pile Driving (higher elevations).
7.
Sound readings will be taken once a week during Pile Driving 
operations and logged.
8.
The 60’ deep perimeter Cut-off Wall establishes drawdown 
boundaries to minimize impact on external groundwater levels.
9.
Pile Driving equipment limited to Hydraulic Hammers plus Shrouds 
that will lower the typical sound dB levels. Pile driving restricted to 
Mon-Fri daytime operational hours.
GMP-2 Perimeter Mitigation & Monitoring Plan
408
409
416
410
411
412
413
414
407
415
P1
P2
P3
P4
V!
V2
V3
V4
S1
S2
S3
S4
S5
304 of 574

--- page 305 ---
—List of Documents



--- page 306 ---
PROJECT:  
DOCUMENT DATE:  
Name
Document #
Rev.
Status
Issued
Bid Addenda
Addendum #1 - 08-12-2019 (From original bid release)
NA
NA
NA
Addendum 1
Addendum # 2 - 08-13-2019 (From original bid release)
NA
NA
NA
Addendum 2
Addendum # 3 - 08-16-2019 (From original bid release)
NA
NA
NA
Addendum 3
Addendum # 4 - 08-26-2019 (From original bid release)
NA
NA
NA
Addendum 4
Model Files
NA FOR GMP 2
Specifications
GMP-2 Release for Construction Specifications
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
GMP-2 RFC Pile Spec 31 62 13
31 62 13
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
Drawings
COVER SHEET
00G000
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
SHEET INDEX
00G001
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
STANDARD ABBREVIATIONS
00G005
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
GENERAL SYMBOLS AND LEGEND
00G006
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
STRUCTURAL OVERALL KEY PLAN
00S040
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
STRUCTURAL OVERALL PILE PLAN
00S041
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
INFLUENT & HEADWORKS AREA 1 PILE PLAN
51S201
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
INFLUENT & HEADWORKS AREA 2 PILE PLAN
51S202
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
INFLUENT & HEADWORKS PILE SCHEDULE
51S601
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
PRIMARY TREATMENT AREA 1 PILE PLAN
52S201
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
PRIMARY TREATMENT AREA 2 PILE PLAN
52S202
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
PRIMARY TREATMENT PILE SCHEDULE
52S601
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
BIOACTIFLO AREA 1 AND 2 PILE PLAN
53S201
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
BIOACTIFLO PILE SCHEDULE
53S601
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
BIOLOGICAL NUTRIENT REMOVAL AREA 1 PILE PLAN
55S201
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
BIOLOGICAL NUTRIENT REMOVAL AREA 2 PILE PLAN
55S202
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
BIOLOGICAL NUTRIENT REMOVAL PILE SCHEDULE - I
55S601
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
BIOLOGICAL NUTRIENT REMOVAL PILE SCHEDULE - II
55S602
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
MEMBRANE FILTRATION AREA 1 PILE PLAN
56S201
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
MEMBRANE FILTRATION AREA 2 PILE PLAN
56S202
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
MEMBRANE FILTRATION AREA 3 PILE PLAN
56S203
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
MEMBRANE FILTRATION AREA 4 PILE PLAN
56S204
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
MEMBRANE FILTRATION PILE SCHEDULE -1
56S601
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
MEMBRANE FILTRATION PILE SCHEDULE - II
56S602
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
ODOR CONTROL AREA 1 PILE PLAN
64S201
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
ODOR CONTROL PILE SCHEDULE
64S601
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
CHEMICALS PILE PLAN
70S201
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
CHEMICALS PILE SCHEDULE
70S601
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
ADMINISTRATION BUILDING PILE LAYOUT PLAN
80S200
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
PILE SCHEDULE
80S601
0
Released for Construction
100% Documents
Sundt Bidding Exhibits
Exhibit A - Scope of Work Directive (SmartBid Tabs)(From original bid release)
NA
0
Not for Construction
90% Documents
Exhibit B - Instructions to Bidders (SmartBid Tabs)(From original bid release)
NA
0
Not for Construction
90% Documents
Exhibit C - Project Schedule (From original bid release)
NA
0
Not for Construction
90% Documents
Exhibit D - Sundt Safety System Manual - (From original bid release)
NA
0
Not for Construction
90% Documents
Exhibit E - List of Contract Documents - (From original bid release)
NA
0
Not for Construction
90% Documents
Exhibit F - Quality Management Plan - (From original bid release)
NA
0
Not for Construction
90% Documents
Exhibit G - Insurance Manual - (From original bid release)
NA
0
Not for Construction
90% Documents
Exhibit H - Textura Overview - (From original bid release)
NA
0
Not for Construction
90% Documents
Exhibit I - Prime Contract - (From original bid release)
NA
0
Not for Construction
90% Documents
Exhibit J - City of San Mateo Business Cooperation - (From original bid release)
NA
0
Not for Construction
90% Documents
Exhibit K - Contractors Questionaire - (From original bid release)
NA
0
Not for Construction
90% Documents
Exhibit L - City of San Mateo BAAQMD - (From original bid release)
NA
0
Not for Construction
90% Documents
Exhibit M - Prevailing Wages - (From original bid release)
NA
0
Not for Construction
90% Documents
Exhibit N - Lean Construciton - (From original bid release)
NA
0
Not for Construction
90% Documents
Exhibit O - WSP - (From original bid release)
NA
0
Not for Construction
90% Documents
Attachment 1 - Sample Agreements - (From original bid release)
NA
0
Not for Construction
90% Documents
Attachment 2 - Sundt Supplemental Drawings - (From original bid release)
NA
0
Not for Construction
90% Documents
GMP2 BIDDING DOCUMENTS LIST
San Mateo WWTP GMP2
12/19/2019
306 of 574

--- page 307 ---
—Subcontractor List



--- page 308 ---
February 28, 2020 
City of San Mateo Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow Management Upgrade & Expansion Project 
RE:  GMP2 Subcontractor List 
The following subcontractors have been selected or have been previously contracted (GMP1) and will 
perform work for GMP2: 
•
WC-0135 – Dust Control and Street Sweeping:  Evans Brothers, Inc.
•
WC-0136 – SWPPP:  HydroCompliance (GMP1 – Formerly BT Consulting)
•
WC-0155 – Traffic Control:  CMC Traffic Control Specialists (GMP1)
•
WC-0180 – Survey:  HMHCA (GMP1)
•
WC-0191 – Tower Cranes:  Bigge (GMP1)
•
WC-3100 – Earthworks:  Evans Brothers, Inc. (GMP1)
•
WC-3123 – Groundwater and Storm Water Treatment System:  Clear Creek Systems (GMP1)
•
WC-3141 – Sump Drilling:  Malcolm Drilling (GMP1)
•
WC-3162 – Piles:  Foundation Constructors
If you have any questions, please send an email to acastaneda@sundt.com or call at 480-436-2753. 
Thank you, 
Andre Castaneda 
Sundt Construction, Inc. 
308 of 574

--- page 309 ---
309 of 574



--- page 310 ---
San Mateo WWTP Expansion Project
GMP-2 - Sundt CMAR Staffing
&nbsp;
310 of&nbsp;574

--- page 311 ---
Exhibit C1 
 
Modifications to Exhibit C 
Supplement to Instructions to Bidders (WIFIA and SRF) 
Project Requirements 
WIFIA and SRF Funding Requirement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
311 of 574

--- page 312 ---
Exhibit C: Supplement to Instructions to Bidders (WIFIA and SRF), Project Requirements, WIFIA 
and SRF Funding Requirements 
 
 
1. Insert referenced EPA Form 4700 under Exhibit C, Attachment 1, Supplement to Instructions 
to Bidders (WIFIA), US EPA Preaward Compliance Review Report. 
 
312 of 574

--- page 313 ---
OMB Control No. 2030-0020  Approval expires 04 /.3  0/2021
Preaward Compliance Review Report for 
All Applicants and Recipients Requesting EPA Financial Assistance 
Note: Read instructions on other side before completing form. 
I.
Applicant/Recipient (Name, Address, State, Zip Code).
DUNS No. 
II.
Is the applicant currently receiving EPA assistance?
III.
List all civil rights lawsuits and administrative complaints pending against the applicant/recipient that allege discrimination based on race,
color, national origin, sex, age, or disability.  (Do not include employment complaints not covered by 40 C.F.R. Parts 5 and 7.  See
instructions on reverse side.)
IV.
List all civil rights lawsuits and administrative complaints decided against the applicant/recipient within the last year that allege
discrimination based on race, color, national origin, sex, age, or disability and enclose a copy of all decisions.  Please describe all corrective
action taken.   (Do not include employment complaints not covered by 40 C.F.R. Parts 5 and 7.  See instructions on reverse side.)
V.
List all civil rights compliance reviews of the applicant/recipient conducted by any agency within the last two years and enclose a copy of the
review and any decisions, orders, or agreements based on the review.  Please describe any corrective action taken.  (40 C.F.R. § 7.80(c)(3))
VI.
Is the applicant requesting EPA assistance for new construction?  If no, proceed to VII; if yes, answer (a) and/or (b) below.
a. If the grant is for new construction, will all new facilities or alterations to existing facilities be designed and constructed to be readily
accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities?  If yes, proceed to VII; if no, proceed to VI(b).
b. If the grant is for new construction and the new facilities or alterations to existing facilities will not be readily accessible to and usable by
persons with disabilities, explain how a regulatory exception (40 C.F.R. § 7.70) applies.
VII.
Does the applicant/recipient provide initial and continuing notice that it does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex,
age, or disability in its programs or activities?  (40 C.F.R. § 5.140 and § 7.95)
a. Do the methods of notice accommodate those with impaired vision or hearing?
b. Is the notice posted in a prominent place in the applicant’s offices or facilities or, for education programs and activities, in appropriate
periodicals and other written communications?
c. Does the notice identify a designated civil rights coordinator?
VIII.
Does the applicant/recipient maintain demographic data on the race, color, national origin, sex, age, or  handicap of the population it serves?
(40 C.F.R. § 7.85(a))
IX.
Does the applicant/recipient have a policy/procedure for providing access to services for persons with limited English proficiency?
(40 C.F.R. Part 7, E.O. 13166)
X.
If the applicant/recipient is an education program or activity, or has 15 or more employees, has it designated an employee to coordinate its
compliance with 40 C.F.R. Parts 5 and 7?  Provide the name, title, position, mailing address, e-mail address, fax number, and telephone
number of the designated coordinator.
XI.
If the applicant/recipient is an education program or activity, or has 15 or more employees, has it adopted grievance procedures that assure
the prompt and fair resolution of complaints that allege a violation of 40 C.F.R. Parts 5 and 7?  Provide a legal citation or Internet address
for, or a copy of, the procedures.
For the Applicant/Recipient 
I certify that the statements I have made on this form and all attachments thereto are true, accurate and complete.  I acknowledge that any knowingly 
false or misleading statement may be punishable by fine or imprisonment or both under applicable law.  I assure that I will fully comply with all 
applicable civil rights statutes and EPA regulations. 
A. Signature of Authorized Official
B. Title of Authorized Official
C. Date
For the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
 
I have reviewed the information provided by the applicant/recipient and hereby certify that the applicant/recipient has submitted all preaward 
compliance information required by 40 C.F.R. Parts 5 and 7; that based on the information submitted, this application satisfies the preaward provisions 
of 40 C.F.R. Parts 5 and 7; and that the applicant has given assurance that it will fully comply with all applicable civil rights statutes and EPA 
regulations. 
A.
Signature of Authorized EPA Official
See * note on reverse side.  
B. Title of Authorized EPA Official
C. Date 
 
EPA Form 4700-4 (Rev. 06/2014). Previous editions are obsolete. 
U.S. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
Washington, DC 20460 
313 of 574

--- page 314 ---
Instructions for EPA FORM 4700-4 (Rev. 06/2014) 
General 
Recipients of Federal financial assistance from the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency must comply with the following 
statutes and regulations. 
Title VI of the Civil Rights Acts of 1964 provides that no person in 
the United States shall, on the grounds of race, color, or national 
origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or 
be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity 
receiving Federal financial assistance.  The Act goes on to explain 
that the statute shall not be construed to authorize action with respect 
to any employment practice of any employer, employment agency, or 
labor organization (except where the primary objective of the Federal 
financial assistance is to provide employment). 
Section 13 of the 1972 Amendments to the Federal Water Pollution 
Control Act provides that no person in the United States shall on the 
ground of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the 
benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under the Federal Water 
Pollution Control Act, as amended.  Employment discrimination on 
the basis of sex is prohibited in all such programs or activities. 
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 provides that no 
otherwise qualified individual with a disability in the United States 
shall solely by reason of disability be excluded from participation in, 
be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any 
program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.  
Employment discrimination on the basis of disability is prohibited in 
all such programs or activities. 
The Age Discrimination Act of 1975 provides that no person on the 
basis of age shall be excluded from participation under any program 
or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.  Employment 
discrimination is not covered.  Age discrimination in employment is 
prohibited by the Age Discrimination in Employment Act 
administered by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. 
Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 provides that no 
person in the United States on the basis of sex shall be excluded from 
participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to 
discrimination under any education program or activity receiving 
Federal financial assistance.  Employment discrimination on the basis 
of sex is prohibited in all such education programs or activities.  
Note: an education program or activity is not limited to only those 
conducted by a formal institution. 
40 C.F.R. Part 5 implements Title IX of the Education Amendments 
of 1972. 
40 C.F.R. Part 7 implements Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 
Section 13 of the 1972 Amendments to the Federal Water Pollution 
Control Act, and Section 504 of The Rehabilitation Act of 1973.   
The Executive Order 13166 (E.O. 13166) entitled; "Improving 
Access to Services for Persons with Limited English Proficiency" 
requires Federal agencies work to ensure that recipients of Federal 
financial assistance provide meaningful access to their LEP 
applicants and beneficiaries.  
Items 
“Applicant” means any entity that files an application or unsolicited 
proposal or otherwise requests EPA assistance.  40 C.F.R. §§ 5.105, 
7.25. 
“Recipient” means any entity, other than applicant, which will actually 
receive EPA assistance.  40 C.F.R. §§ 5.105, 7.25. 
“Civil rights lawsuits and administrative complaints” means any 
lawsuit or administrative complaint alleging discrimination on the 
basis of race, color, national origin, sex, age, or disability pending or 
decided against the applicant and/or entity which actually benefits 
from the grant, but excluding employment complaints not covered by 
40 C.F.R. Parts 5 and 7.  For example, if a city is the named applicant 
but the grant will actually benefit the Department of Sewage, civil 
rights lawsuits involving both the city and the Department of Sewage 
should be listed.  
“Civil rights compliance review” means any review assessing the 
applicant’s and/or recipient’s compliance with laws prohibiting 
discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, age, or 
disability. 
Submit this form with the original and required copies of applications, 
requests for extensions, requests for increase of funds, etc.  Updates of 
information are all that are required after the initial application 
submission. 
If any item is not relevant to the project for which assistance is 
requested, write “NA” for “Not Applicable.” 
In the event applicant is uncertain about how to answer any questions, 
EPA program officials should be contacted for clarification.
* Note: Signature appears in the Approval Section of the EPA
Comprehensive Administrative Review For Grants/Cooperative
Agreements & Continuation/Supplemental Awards form.
“Burden Disclosure Statement” 
EPA estimates public reporting burden for the preparation of this form 
to average 30 minutes per response.  This estimate includes the time 
for reviewing instructions, gathering and maintaining the data needed 
and completing and reviewing the form.  Send comments regarding the 
burden estimate, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to 
U.S. EPA, Attn: Collection Strategies Division (MC 2822T), Office of 
Information Collection, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Washington, 
D.C. 20460; and to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs,
Office of Management and Budget, Washington, D.C. 20503.
The information on this form is required to enable the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency to determine whether applicants and 
prospective recipients are developing projects, programs and activities 
on a nondiscriminatory basis as required by the above statutes and 
regulations. 
314 of 574

--- page 315 ---
Exhibit C: Supplement to Instructions to Bidders (WIFIA and SRF), Project Requirements, WIFIA 
and SRF Funding Requirements 
 
 
1. Add to Exhibit C, Attachment 4a, Supplement to Instructions to Bidders (WIFIA and SRF), 
Davis Bacon Wage Rate Determination for current wage rate determination to apply to GMP 
2 only. 
 
315 of 574

--- page 316 ---
San Mateo WWTP Upgrade and Expansion Project 
Prime Contract Agreement 
Exhibit C - Attachment 4 
 
1 
ATTACHMENT 4a 
 
Supplement to Instructions to Bidders (WIFIA and SRF) 
 
DAVIS BACON WAGE RATE DETERMINATION – GMP2 ONLY 
For purposes of this Attachment only, “subrecipient” means the City of San Mateo. 
For purposes of this Attachment only, “contractor” means CMAR. 
 
The subrecipient shall obtain the Davis Bacon wage rate determination, per Attachment 3, prior to 
the contractor issuing requests for bids, bids, quotes or other methods for soliciting contracts 
(solicitation) for each GMP. 
 
[attached behind this page] 
 
 
316 of 574

--- page 317 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&co…
1/70
          "General Decision Number: CA20200018 04/17/2020 
 
Superseded General Decision Number: CA20190018 
 
State: California 
 
Construction Types: Building, Heavy (Heavy and Dredging) and  
Highway 
 
 
Counties: Alameda, Calaveras, Contra Costa, Fresno, Kings,  
Madera, Mariposa, Merced, Monterey, San Benito, San Francisco,  
San Joaquin, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Santa Cruz, Stanislaus and  
Tuolumne Counties in California. 
 
 
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS; DREDGING PROJECTS (does not 
include hopper dredge work); HEAVY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS (does 
not include water well drilling); HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS 
 
Note: Under Executive Order (EO) 13658, an hourly minimum wage 
of $10.80 for calendar year 2020 applies to all contracts 
subject to the Davis-Bacon Act for which the contract is 
awarded (and any solicitation was issued) on or after January 
1, 2015.  If this contract is covered by the EO, the contractor 
must pay all workers in any classification listed on this wage 
determination at least $10.80 per hour (or the applicable wage 
rate listed on this wage determination, if it is higher) for 
all hours spent performing on the contract in calendar year 
2020.  If this contract is covered by the EO and a 
classification considered necessary for performance of work on 
the contract does not appear on this wage determination, the 
contractor must pay workers in that classification at least the 
wage rate determined through the conformance process set forth 
in 29 CFR 5.5(a)(1)(ii) (or the EO minimum wage rate,if it is 
higher than the conformed wage rate).  The EO minimum wage rate 
will be adjusted annually.  Please note that this EO applies to 
the above-mentioned types of contracts entered into by the 
federal government that are subject to the Davis-Bacon Act 
itself, but it does not apply to contracts subject only to the 
Davis-Bacon Related Acts, including those set forth at 29 CFR 
5.1(a)(2)-(60). Additional information on contractor 
requirements and worker protections under the EO is available 
at www.dol.gov/whd/govcontracts. 
 
 
Modification Number     Publication Date 
          0              01/03/2020 
          1              01/10/2020 
          2              01/24/2020 
          3              01/31/2020 
          4              02/07/2020 
          5              03/06/2020 
          6              03/13/2020 
          7              04/17/2020 
 
 ASBE0016-004 01/01/2019 
 
AREA 1: CALAVERAS, FRESNO, KINGS, MADERA, MARIPOSA, MERCED, 
MONTEREY, SAN BENITO, SAN JOAQUIN, SANTA CRUZ, STANISLAUS & 
TOULMNE COUNTIES 
 
AREA 2: ALAMEDA, CONTRA COSTA, SAN FRANSICO, SAN MATEO & SANTA 
CLARA COUNTIES 
317 of 574

--- page 318 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&co…
2/70
 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Asbestos Removal    
worker/hazardous material    
handler (Includes    
preparation, wetting,    
stripping, removal,    
scrapping, vacuuming, bagging    
and disposing of all    
insulation materials from    
mechanical systems, whether    
they contain asbestos or not)   
     Area 1......................$ 28.20             9.27 
     Area 2......................$ 36.53             9.27 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ASBE0016-008 01/01/2020 
 
AREA 1: ALAMEDA, CONTRA COSTA, MONTEREY, SAN BENITO, SAN 
FRANSICO, SAN MATEO, SANTA CLARA, & SANTA CRUZ 
 
AREA 2: CALAVERAS, COLUSA, FRESNO, KINGS, MADERA, MARIPOSA, 
MERCED, SAN JOAQUIN, STANISLAU, & TUOLUMNE 
 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Asbestos Workers/Insulator    
(Includes the application of    
all insulating materials,    
Protective Coverings,    
Coatings, and Finishes to all    
types of mechanical systems)   
     Area 1......................$ 71.16            23.39 
     Area 2......................$ 54.26            23.39 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 BOIL0549-001 10/01/2016 
 
AREA 1: ALAMEDA, CONTRA COSTA, SAN FRANCISCO, SAN MATEO & SANTA 
CLARA COUNTIES 
 
AREA 2: REMAINING COUNTIES 
 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
BOILERMAKER   
     Area 1......................$ 43.28            37.91 
     Area 2......................$ 39.68            35.71 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 BRCA0003-001 08/01/2019 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
MARBLE FINISHER..................$ 35.41            16.45 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 BRCA0003-003 08/01/2019 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
MARBLE MASON.....................$ 49.42            27.86 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 BRCA0003-005 05/01/2019 
 
318 of 574

--- page 319 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&co…
3/70
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
BRICKLAYER   
     ( 1) Fresno, Kings,  
     Madera, Mariposa, Merced....$ 41.88            22.19 
     ( 7) San Francisco, San  
     Mateo.......................$ 42.34            25.83 
     ( 8) Alameda, Contra  
     Costa, San Benito, Santa  
     Clara.......................$ 44.16            21.71 
     ( 9) Calaveras, San  
     Joaquin, Stanislaus,  
     Toulumne....................$ 39.66            20.76 
     (16) Monterey, Santa Cruz...$ 39.51            23.49 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 BRCA0003-008 07/01/2019 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
TERRAZZO FINISHER................$ 37.58            17.33 
TERRAZZO WORKER/SETTER...........$ 48.53            26.84 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 BRCA0003-011 04/01/2019 
 
AREA 1: Alameda, Contra Costa, Monterey, San Benito, San 
Francisco, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Santa Cruz 
 
AREA 2: Calaveras, San Joaquin, Stanislaus, Tuolumne 
 
AREA 3: Fresno, Kings, Madera, Mariposa, Merced 
 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
TILE FINISHER   
     Area 1......................$ 29.94            16.38 
     Area 2......................$ 25.60            14.30 
     Area 3......................$ 26.58            15.65 
Tile Layer   
     Area 1......................$ 49.90            19.16 
     Area 2......................$ 42.67            16.81 
     Area 3......................$ 40.27            18.58 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 CARP0022-001 07/01/2019 
 
San Francisco County 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Carpenters   
     Bridge Builder/Highway  
     Carpenter...................$ 50.50            30.20 
     Hardwood Floorlayer,  
     Shingler, Power Saw  
     Operator, Steel Scaffold &  
     Steel Shoring Erector, Saw  
     Filer.......................$ 50.65            30.20 
     Journeyman Carpenter........$ 50.50            30.20 
     Millwright..................$ 50.60            31.79 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 CARP0034-001 07/01/2019 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Diver   
319 of 574

--- page 320 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&co…
4/70
     Assistant Tender, ROV  
     Tender/Technician...........$ 49.75            33.40 
     Diver standby...............$ 55.73            33.40 
     Diver Tender................$ 54.73            33.40 
     Diver wet...................$ 99.27            33.40 
     Manifold Operator (mixed  
     gas)........................$ 59.73            33.40 
     Manifold Operator (Standby).$ 54.73            33.40 
 
DEPTH PAY (Surface Diving):   
050 to 100 ft    $2.00 per foot    
101 to 150 ft    $3.00 per foot    
151 to 220 ft    $4.00 per foot 
221 ft.-deeper   $5.00 per foot 
 
SATURATION DIVING: 
  The standby rate shall apply until saturation starts.  The 
  saturation diving rate applies when divers are under 
  pressure continuously until work task and decompression are 
  complete. The diver rate shall be paid for all saturation 
  hours. 
 
DIVING IN ENCLOSURES: 
  Where it is necessary for Divers to enter pipes or tunnels, 
  or other enclosures where there is no vertical ascent, the 
  following premium shall be paid:  Distance traveled from 
  entrance 26 feet to 300 feet:  $1.00 per foot.  When it is 
  necessary for a diver to enter any pipe, tunnel or other 
  enclosure less than 48"" in height, the premium will be 
  $1.00 per foot. 
 
WORK IN COMBINATION OF CLASSIFICATIONS: 
  Employees working in any combination of classifications 
  within the diving crew (except dive supervisor) in a shift 
  are paid in the classification with the highest rate for 
  that shift. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 CARP0034-003 07/01/2019 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Piledriver.......................$ 50.75            33.40 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 CARP0035-007 07/01/2019 
 
AREA 1: Alameda, Contra Costa, San Francisco, San Mateo, Santa 
Clara counties 
 
AREA 2: Monterey, San Benito, Santa Cruz Counties 
 
AREA 3: Calaveras, Fresno, Kings, Madera, Mariposa, Merced, San 
Joaquin, Stanislaus, Tuolumne Counties 
 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Modular Furniture Installer   
     Area 1 
      Installer I................$ 27.46            22.14 
      Installer II...............$ 22.18            20.42 
      Lead Installer.............$ 30.91            22.64 
      Master Installer...........$ 35.13            22.64 
     Area 2 
      Installer I................$ 24.81            22.14 
320 of 574

--- page 321 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&co…
5/70
      Installer II...............$ 20.01            20.42 
      Lead Installer.............$ 27.78            22.64 
      Master Installer...........$ 31.41            22.64 
     Area 3 
      Installer I................$ 23.86            22.14 
      Installer II...............$ 19.24            20.42 
      Lead Installer.............$ 26.66            22.64 
      Master Installer...........$ 30.08            22.64 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 CARP0035-008 08/01/2019 
 
AREA 1: Alameda, Contra Costa, San Francisco, San Mateo, Santa 
Clara counties 
 
AREA 2: Monterey, San Benito, Santa Cruz Counties 
 
AREA 3: San Joaquin 
 
AREA 4: Calaveras, Fresno, Kings, Madera, Mariposa, Merced, 
Stanislaus, Tuolumne Counties 
 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Drywall Installers/Lathers:   
     Area 1......................$ 50.50            30.64 
     Area 2......................$ 44.62            30.64 
     Area 3......................$ 41.02            29.15 
     Area 4......................$ 43.77            30.64 
Drywall Stocker/Scrapper   
     Area 1......................$ 25.25            17.86 
     Area 2......................$ 22.31            17.86 
     Area 3......................$ 20.51            16.88 
     Area 4......................$ 21.89            17.86 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 CARP0152-001 07/01/2019 
 
Contra Costa County 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Carpenters   
     Bridge Builder/Highway  
     Carpenter...................$ 50.50            30.20 
     Hardwood Floorlayer,  
     Shingler, Power Saw  
     Operator, Steel Scaffold &  
     Steel Shoring Erector, Saw  
     Filer.......................$ 50.65            30.20 
     Journeyman Carpenter........$ 50.50            30.20 
     Millwright..................$ 50.60            31.79 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 CARP0152-002 07/01/2019 
 
San Joaquin County 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Carpenters   
     Bridge Builder/Highway  
     Carpenter...................$ 50.50            30.20 
     Hardwood Floorlayer,  
     Shingler, Power Saw  
     Operator, Steel Scaffold &  
     Steel Shoring Erector, Saw  
321 of 574

--- page 322 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&co…
6/70
     Filer.......................$ 44.77            30.20 
     Journeyman Carpenter........$ 44.62            30.20 
     Millwright..................$ 47.12            31.79 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 CARP0152-004 07/01/2019 
 
Calaveras, Mariposa, Merced, Stanislaus and Tuolumne Counties 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Carpenters   
     Bridge Builder/Highway  
     Carpenter...................$ 50.50            30.20 
     Hardwood Floorlayer,  
     Shingler, Power Saw  
     Operator, Steel Scaffold &  
     Steel Shoring Erector, Saw  
     Filer.......................$ 43.42            30.20 
     Journeyman Carpenter........$ 43.27            30.20 
     Millwright..................$ 45.77            31.79 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 CARP0217-001 07/01/2019 
 
San Mateo County 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Carpenters   
     Bridge Builder/Highway  
     Carpenter...................$ 50.50            30.20 
     Hardwood Floorlayer,  
     Shingler, Power Saw  
     Operator, Steel Scaffold &  
     Steel Shoring Erector, Saw  
     Filer.......................$ 50.65            30.20 
     Journeyman Carpenter........$ 50.50            30.20 
     Millwright..................$ 50.60            31.79 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 CARP0405-001 07/01/2019 
 
Santa Clara County 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Carpenters   
     Bridge Builder/Highway  
     Carpenter...................$ 50.50            30.20 
     Hardwood Floorlayer,  
     Shingler, Power Saw  
     Operator, Steel Scaffold &  
     Steel Shoring Erector, Saw  
     Filer.......................$ 50.65            30.20 
     Journeyman Carpenter........$ 50.50            30.20 
     Millwright..................$ 50.60            31.79 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 CARP0405-002 07/01/2019 
 
San Benito County 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Carpenters   
     Bridge Builder/Highway  
     Carpenter...................$ 50.50            30.20 
     Hardwood Floorlayer,  
322 of 574

--- page 323 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&co…
7/70
     Shingler, Power Saw  
     Operator, Steel Scaffold &  
     Steel Shoring Erector, Saw  
     Filer.......................$ 44.68            30.20 
     Journeyman Carpenter........$ 44.62            30.20 
     Millwright..................$ 47.12            31.79 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 CARP0505-001 07/01/2019 
 
Santa Cruz County 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Carpenters   
     Bridge Builder/Highway  
     Carpenter...................$ 50.50            30.20 
     Hardwood Floorlayer,  
     Shingler, Power Saw  
     Operator, Steel Scaffold &  
     Steel Shoring Erector, Saw  
     Filer.......................$ 44.77            30.20 
     Journeyman Carpenter........$ 44.62            30.20 
     Millwright..................$ 47.12            31.79 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 CARP0605-001 07/01/2019 
 
Monterey County 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Carpenters   
     Bridge Builder/Highway  
     Carpenter...................$ 50.50            30.20 
     Hardwood Floorlayer,  
     Shingler, Power Saw  
     Operator, Steel Scaffold &  
     Steel Shoring Erector, Saw  
     Filer.......................$ 44.77            30.20 
     Journeyman Carpenter........$ 44.62            30.20 
     Millwright..................$ 47.12            31.79 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 CARP0701-001 07/01/2019 
 
Fresno and Madera Counties 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Carpenters   
     Bridge Builder/Highway  
     Carpenter...................$ 50.50            30.20 
     Hardwood Floorlayer,  
     Shingler, Power Saw  
     Operator, Steel Scaffold &  
     Steel Shoring Erector, Saw  
     Filer.......................$ 43.42            30.20 
     Journeyman Carpenter........$ 43.27            30.20 
     Millwright..................$ 45.77            31.79 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 CARP0713-001 07/01/2019 
 
Alameda County 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Carpenters   
323 of 574

--- page 324 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&co…
8/70
     Bridge Builder/Highway  
     Carpenter...................$ 50.50            30.20 
     Hardwood Floorlayer,  
     Shingler, Power Saw  
     Operator, Steel Scaffold &  
     Steel Shoring Erector, Saw  
     Filer.......................$ 50.65            30.20 
     Journeyman Carpenter........$ 50.50            30.20 
     Millwright..................$ 50.60            31.79 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 CARP1109-001 07/01/2019 
 
Kings County 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Carpenters   
     Bridge Builder/Highway  
     Carpenter...................$ 50.50            30.20 
     Hardwood Floorlayer,  
     Shingler, Power Saw  
     Operator, Steel Scaffold &  
     Steel Shoring Erector, Saw  
     Filer.......................$ 43.42            30.20 
     Journeyman Carpenter........$ 43.27            30.20 
     Millwright..................$ 45.77            31.79 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ELEC0006-004 12/01/2018 
 
SAN FRANCISCO COUNTY 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Sound & Communications   
     Installer...................$ 40.52         3%+19.05 
     Technician..................$ 46.60         3%+19.05 
 
  SCOPE OF WORK:  Including any data system whose only function 
  is to transmit or  receive information; excluding all other 
  data systems or  multiple systems which include control 
  function or power supply;  inclusion or exclusion of 
  terminations and testings of  conductors determined by 
  their function; excluding fire alarm  work when installed 
  in raceways (including wire and cable  pulling) and when 
  performed on new or major remodel building  projects or 
  jobs for which the conductors for the fire alarm system are 
  installed in conduit; excluding installation of raceway 
  systems, line voltage work, industrial work, life-safety 
  systems (all buildings having floors located more than 75' 
  above the lowest floor level having building access); 
  excluding energy management systems. 
 
  FOOTNOTE:   Fire alarm work when installed in raceways 
  (including wire and cable pulling), on projects which 
  involve new or major remodel building construction, for 
  which the conductors for the fire alarm system are 
  installed in the conduit, shall be performed by the inside 
  electrician. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ELEC0006-007 06/01/2019 
 
SAN FRANCISCO COUNTY 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
324 of 574

--- page 325 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&co…
9/70
 
ELECTRICIAN......................$ 74.50        3%+33.715 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ELEC0100-002 03/01/2020 
 
FRESNO, KINGS, AND MADERA COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
ELECTRICIAN......................$ 39.75            24.09 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ELEC0100-005 12/01/2019 
 
FRESNO, KINGS, MADERA 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Communications System   
     Installer...................$ 35.25            20.86 
     Technician..................$ 40.54            21.02 
 
SCOPE OF WORK   
  Includes the installation testing, service and maintenance, 
  of the following systems which utilize the transmission 
  and/or transference of voice, sound, vision and digital for 
  commercial, education, security and entertainment purposes 
  for the following: TV monitoring and surveillance, 
  background-foreground music, intercom and telephone 
  interconnect, inventory control systems, microwave 
  transmission, multi-media, multiplex, nurse call system, 
  radio page, school intercom and sound, burglar alarms, and 
  low voltage master clock systems. 
 
  A. SOUND AND VOICE TRANSMISSION/TRANSFERENCE SYSTEMS 
  Background foreground music, Intercom and telephone 
  interconnect systems, Telephone systems Nurse call systems, 
  Radio page systems, School intercom and sound systems, 
  Burglar alarm systems, Low voltage, master clock systems, 
  Multi-media/multiplex systems, Sound and musical 
  entertainment systems, RF systems, Antennas and Wave Guide, 
 
B. FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS Installation, wire pulling and testing   
 
  C. TELEVISION AND VIDEO SYSTEMS     Television monitoring and 
  surveillance systems  Video security systems, Video 
  entertainment systems, Video educational systems, Microwave 
  transmission systems, CATV and CCTV 
 
  D. SECURITY SYSTEMS Perimeter security systems Vibration 
  sensor systems Card access systems Access control systems, 
  Sonar/infrared monitoring equipment 
 
  E. COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS THAT TRANSMIT OR RECEIVE 
  INFORMATION AND/OR CONTROL SYSTEMS THAT ARE INTRINSIC  TO 
  THE ABOVE LISTED SYSTEMS  SCADA (Supervisory Control and 
  Data Acquisition)  PCM (Pulse Code Modulation) Inventory 
  Control Systems, Digital Data Systems  Broadband and 
  Baseband and Carriers Point of Sale Systems, VSAT Data 
  Systems  Data Communication Systems  RF and Remote Control 
  Systems, Fiber Optic Data Systems 
 
  WORK EXCLUDED Raceway systems are not covered (excluding 
  Ladder-Rack for the purpose of the above listed systems). 
  Chases and/or nipples (not to exceed 10 feet) may be 
  installed on open wiring systems. Energy management 
325 of 574

--- page 326 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
10/70
  systems.  SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition) 
  when not intrinsic to the above listed systems (in the 
  scope).  Fire alarm systems when installed in raceways 
  (including wire and cable pulling) shall be performed at 
  the electrician wage rate, when either of the following two 
  (2) conditions apply: 
  1.  The project involves new or major remodel building trades 
  construction. 
  2.  The conductors for the fire alarm system are installed in 
  conduit. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ELEC0234-001 12/23/2019 
 
MONTEREY, SAN BENITO AND SANTA CRUZ COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
ELECTRICIAN   
     Zone A......................$ 51.47            26.64 
     Zone B......................$ 56.62            26.80 
 
  Zone A: All of Santa Cruz, Monterey, and San Benito Counties 
  within 25 air miles of Highway 1 and Dolan Road in Moss 
  Landing, and an area extending 5 miles east and west of 
  Highway 101 South to the San Luis Obispo County Line 
 
Zone B: Any area outside of Zone A 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ELEC0234-003 12/01/2018 
 
MONTEREY, SAN BENITO, AND SANTA CRUZ COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Sound & Communications   
     Installer...................$ 40.02            19.75 
     Technician..................$ 46.02            19.75 
 
  SCOPE OF WORK:  Including any data system whose only function 
  is to transmit or  receive information; excluding all other 
  data systems or  multiple systems which include control 
  function or power supply;  inclusion or exclusion of 
  terminations and testings of  conductors determined by 
  their function; excluding fire alarm  work when installed 
  in raceways (including wire and cable  pulling) and when 
  performed on new or major remodel building  projects or 
  jobs for which the conductors for the fire alarm system are 
  installed in conduit; excluding installation of raceway 
  systems, line voltage work, industrial work, life-safety 
  systems (all buildings having floors located more than 75' 
  above the lowest floor level having building access); 
  excluding energy management systems. 
 
  FOOTNOTE:   Fire alarm work when installed in raceways 
  (including wire and cable pulling), on projects which 
  involve new or major remodel building construction, for 
  which the conductors for the fire alarm system are 
  installed in the conduit, shall be performed by the inside 
  electrician. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ELEC0302-001 02/25/2019 
 
326 of 574

--- page 327 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
11/70
CONTRA COSTA COUNTY 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
CABLE SPLICER....................$ 60.48            26.06 
ELECTRICIAN......................$ 53.76            25.86 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ELEC0302-003 12/01/2018 
 
CONTRA COSTA COUNTY 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Sound & Communications   
     Installer...................$ 38.42            19.70 
     Technician..................$ 44.18            19.88 
 
  SCOPE OF WORK:  Including any data system whose only function 
  is to transmit or  receive information; excluding all other 
  data systems or  multiple systems which include control 
  function or power supply;  inclusion or exclusion of 
  terminations and testings of  conductors determined by 
  their function; excluding fire alarm  work when installed 
  in raceways (including wire and cable  pulling) and when 
  performed on new or major remodel building  projects or 
  jobs for which the conductors for the fire alarm system are 
  installed in conduit; excluding installation of raceway 
  systems, line voltage work, industrial work, life-safety 
  systems (all buildings having floors located more than 75' 
  above the lowest floor level having building access); 
  excluding energy management systems. 
 
  FOOTNOTE:   Fire alarm work when installed in raceways 
  (including wire and cable pulling), on projects which 
  involve new or major remodel building construction, for 
  which the conductors for the fire alarm system are 
  installed in the conduit, shall be performed by the inside 
  electrician. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ELEC0332-001 06/01/2019 
 
SANTA CLARA COUNTY 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
CABLE SPLICER....................$ 78.60           38.564 
ELECTRICIAN......................$ 68.52           38.256 
 
  FOOTNOTES: Work under compressed air or where gas masks are 
  required, orwork on ladders, scaffolds, stacks, ""Bosun's 
  chairs,"" or other structures and where the workers are not 
  protected by permanent guard rails at a distance of 40 to 
  60 ft. from the ground or supporting structures: to be paid 
  one and one-half times the straight-time rate of pay. 
  Work on structures of 60 ft. or over (as described above): 
  to be paid twice the straight-time rate of pay. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
* ELEC0332-003 12/01/2019 
 
SANTA CLARA COUNTY 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
327 of 574

--- page 328 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
12/70
Sound & Communications   
     Installer...................$ 42.93            21.08 
     Technician..................$ 49.37            21.28 
 
  SCOPE OF WORK:  Including any data system whose only function 
  is to transmit or  receive information; excluding all other 
  data systems or  multiple systems which include control 
  function or power supply;  inclusion or exclusion of 
  terminations and testings of  conductors determined by 
  their function; excluding fire alarm  work when installed 
  in raceways (including wire and cable  pulling) and when 
  performed on new or major remodel building  projects or 
  jobs for which the conductors for the fire alarm system are 
  installed in conduit; excluding installation of raceway 
  systems, line voltage work, industrial work, life-safety 
  systems (all buildings having floors located more than 75' 
  above the lowest floor level having building access); 
  excluding energy management systems. 
 
  FOOTNOTE:   Fire alarm work when installed in raceways 
  (including wire and cable pulling), on projects which 
  involve new or major remodel building construction, for 
  which the conductors for the fire alarm system are 
  installed in the conduit, shall be performed by the inside 
  electrician. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ELEC0595-001 06/01/2019 
 
ALAMEDA COUNTY 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
CABLE SPLICER....................$ 65.90         3%+36.82 
ELECTRICIAN......................$ 57.30         3%+36.82 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ELEC0595-002 06/01/2019 
 
CALAVERAS AND SAN JOAQUIN COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
CABLE SPLICER....................$ 43.99      7.75%+24.83 
ELECTRICIAN   
     (1) Tunnel work.............$ 40.16      7.75%+24.83 
     (2)  All other work.........$ 38.25      7.75%+24.83 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ELEC0595-006 12/01/2019 
 
ALAMEDA COUNTY 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Sound & Communications   
     Installer...................$ 42.93         3%+20.22 
     Technician..................$ 53.66         3%+20.22 
 
  SCOPE OF WORK:  Including any data system whose only function 
  is to transmit or  receive information; excluding all other 
  data systems or  multiple systems which include control 
  function or power supply;  inclusion or exclusion of 
  terminations and testings of  conductors determined by 
  their function; excluding fire alarm  work when installed 
  in raceways (including wire and cable  pulling) and when 
  performed on new or major remodel building  projects or 
328 of 574

--- page 329 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
13/70
  jobs for which the conductors for the fire alarm system are 
  installed in conduit; excluding installation of raceway 
  systems, line voltage work, industrial work, life-safety 
  systems (all buildings having floors located more than 75' 
  above the lowest floor level having building access); 
  excluding energy management systems. 
 
  FOOTNOTE:   Fire alarm work when installed in raceways 
  (including wire and cable pulling), on projects which 
  involve new or major remodel building construction, for 
  which the conductors for the fire alarm system are 
  installed in the conduit, shall be performed by the inside 
  electrician. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ELEC0595-008 12/01/2019 
 
CALAVERAS AND SAN JOAQUIN COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Communications System   
     Installer...................$ 35.25         3%+20.22 
     Technician..................$ 44.06         3%+20.22 
 
  SCOPE OF WORK:  Including any data system whose only function 
  is to transmit or  receive information; excluding all other 
  data systems or  multiple systems which include control 
  function or power supply;  inclusion or exclusion of 
  terminations and testings of  conductors determined by 
  their function; excluding fire alarm  work when installed 
  in raceways (including wire and cable  pulling) and when 
  performed on new or major remodel building  projects or 
  jobs for which the conductors for the fire alarm system are 
  installed in conduit; excluding installation of raceway 
  systems, line voltage work, industrial work, life-safety 
  systems (all buildings having floors located more than 75' 
  above the lowest floor level having building access); 
  excluding energy management systems. 
 
  FOOTNOTE:  Fire alarm work when installed in raceways 
  (including wire and cable pulling), on projects which 
  involve new or major remodel building construction, for 
  which the conductors for the fire alarm system are 
  installed in the conduit, shall be performed by the inside 
  electrician. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ELEC0617-001 06/01/2019 
 
SAN MATEO COUNTY 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
ELECTRICIAN......................$ 63.00            37.68 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ELEC0617-003 12/01/2019 
 
SAN MATEO COUNTY 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Sound & Communications   
     Installer...................$ 42.93            21.09 
     Technician..................$ 49.37            21.28 
329 of 574

--- page 330 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
14/70
 
  SCOPE OF WORK:  Including any data system whose only function 
  is to transmit or  receive information; excluding all other 
  data systems or  multiple systems which include control 
  function or power supply;  inclusion or exclusion of 
  terminations and testings of  conductors determined by 
  their function; excluding fire alarm  work when installed 
  in raceways (including wire and cable  pulling) and when 
  performed on new or major remodel building  projects or 
  jobs for which the conductors for the fire alarm system are 
  installed in conduit; excluding installation of raceway 
  systems, line voltage work, industrial work, life-safety 
  systems (all buildings having floors located more than 75' 
  above the lowest floor level having building access); 
  excluding energy management systems. 
 
  FOOTNOTE:   Fire alarm work when installed in raceways 
  (including wire and cable pulling), on projects which 
  involve new or major remodel building construction, for 
  which the conductors for the fire alarm system are 
  installed in the conduit, shall be performed by the inside 
  electrician. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ELEC0684-001 06/01/2019 
 
MARIPOSA, MERCED, STANISLAUS AND TUOLUMNE COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
ELECTRICIAN......................$ 40.25         3%+22.83 
 
CABLE SPLICER = 110% of Journeyman Electrician 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ELEC0684-004 12/01/2019 
 
MARIPOSA, MERCED, STANISLAUS AND TUOLUMNE COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Communications System   
     Installer...................$ 35.25            20.86 
     Technician..................$ 40.54            21.02 
 
  SCOPE OF WORK:  Including any data system whose only function 
  is to transmit or  receive information; excluding all other 
  data systems or  multiple systems which include control 
  function or power supply;  inclusion or exclusion of 
  terminations and testings of  conductors determined by 
  their function; excluding fire alarm  work when installed 
  in raceways (including wire and cable  pulling) and when 
  performed on new or major remodel building  projects or 
  jobs for which the conductors for the fire alarm system are 
  installed in conduit; excluding installation of raceway 
  systems, line voltage work, industrial work, life-safety 
  systems (all buildings having floors located more than 75' 
  above the lowest floor level having building access); 
  excluding energy management systems. 
 
  FOOTNOTE:  Fire alarm work when installed in raceways 
  (including wire and cable pulling), on projects which 
  involve new or major remodel building construction, for 
  which the conductors for the fire alarm system are 
  installed in the conduit, shall be performed by the inside 
  electrician. 
330 of 574

--- page 331 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
15/70
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ELEC1245-001 01/01/2020 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
LINE CONSTRUCTION   
     (1) Lineman; Cable splicer..$ 58.09            19.74 
     (2) Equipment specialist  
     (operates crawler  
     tractors, commercial motor  
     vehicles, backhoes,  
     trenchers, cranes (50 tons  
     and below), overhead &  
     underground distribution  
     line   equipment)...........$ 46.40            18.55 
     (3) Groundman...............$ 35.47            18.17 
     (4) Powderman...............$ 51.87            18.79 
 
  HOLIDAYS: New Year's Day, M.L. King Day, Memorial Day, 
  Independence Day, Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day 
  and day after Thanksgiving, Christmas Day 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ELEV0008-001 01/01/2020 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
ELEVATOR MECHANIC................$ 69.78       34.765+a+b 
 
FOOTNOTE: 
  a. PAID VACATION:  Employer contributes 8% of regular hourly 
  rate as vacation pay credit for employees with more than 5 
  years of service, and 6% for 6 months to 5 years of service. 
  b. PAID HOLIDAYS: New Years Day, Memorial Day, Independence 
  Day, Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, Friday 
  after Thanksgiving, and Christmas Day. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ENGI0003-001 06/24/2019 
 
""AREA 1"" WAGE RATES ARE LISTED BELOW  
 
""AREA 2"" RECEIVES AN ADDITIONAL $2.00 PER HOUR ABOVE AREA 1 
RATES. 
 
SEE AREA DEFINITIONS BELOW 
 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
OPERATOR:  Power Equipment    
(AREA 1:)   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 49.02            30.74 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 47.49            30.74 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 46.01            30.74 
     GROUP 4.....................$ 44.63            30.74 
     GROUP 5.....................$ 43.36            30.74 
     GROUP 6.....................$ 42.04            30.74 
     GROUP 7.....................$ 40.90            30.74 
     GROUP 8.....................$ 39.76            30.74 
     GROUP 8-A...................$ 37.55            30.74 
OPERATOR:  Power Equipment    
(Cranes and Attachments -    
AREA 1:)   
331 of 574

--- page 332 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
16/70
     GROUP 1 
      Cranes.....................$ 50.65            30.74 
      Oiler......................$ 36.63            30.39 
      Truck crane oiler..........$ 43.55            30.74 
     GROUP 2 
      Cranes.....................$ 48.14            30.74 
      Oiler......................$ 36.36            30.39 
      Truck crane oiler..........$ 43.33            30.74 
     GROUP 3 
      Cranes.....................$ 46.40            30.74 
      Hydraulic..................$ 38.32            30.39 
      Oiler......................$ 36.14            30.39 
      Truck Crane Oiler..........$ 43.06            30.74 
     GROUP 4 
      Cranes.....................$ 43.36            30.74 
OPERATOR:  Power Equipment    
(Piledriving - AREA 1:)   
     GROUP 1 
      Lifting devices............$ 45.89            30.39 
      Oiler......................$ 36.63            30.39 
      Truck crane oiler..........$ 39.20            30.39 
     GROUP 2 
      Lifting devices............$ 44.07            30.39 
      Oiler......................$ 36.36            30.39 
      Truck Crane Oiler..........$ 38.98            30.39 
     GROUP 3 
      Lifting devices............$ 42.39            30.39 
      Oiler......................$ 36.14            30.39 
      Truck Crane Oiler..........$ 38.71            30.39 
     GROUP 4 
      Lifting devices............$ 40.62            30.39 
     GROUP 5 
      Lifting devices............$ 39.32            30.39 
     GROUP 6 
      Lifting devices............$ 37.98            30.39 
OPERATOR:  Power Equipment    
(Steel Erection - AREA 1:)   
     GROUP 1 
      Cranes.....................$ 46.30            30.39 
      Oiler......................$ 36.63            30.39 
      Truck Crane Oiler..........$ 39.20            30.39 
     GROUP 2 
      Cranes.....................$ 43.79            30.39 
      Oiler......................$ 36.36            30.39 
      Truck Crane Oiler..........$ 38.98            30.39 
     GROUP 3 
      Cranes.....................$ 42.05            30.39 
      Hydraulic..................$ 38.32            30.39 
      Oiler......................$ 36.14            30.39 
      Truck Crane Oiler..........$ 38.71            30.39 
     GROUP 4 
      Cranes.....................$ 39.01            30.39 
     GROUP 5 
      Cranes.....................$ 35.13            30.39 
OPERATOR:  Power Equipment    
(Tunnel and Underground Work    
- AREA 1:)   
     SHAFTS, STOPES, RAISES: 
      GROUP 1....................$ 40.77            30.39 
      GROUP 1-A..................$ 43.24            30.39 
      GROUP 2....................$ 39.51            30.39 
      GROUP 3....................$ 38.18            30.39 
      GROUP 4....................$ 37.04            30.39 
      GROUP 5....................$ 35.90            30.39 
     UNDERGROUND: 
332 of 574

--- page 333 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
17/70
      GROUP 1....................$ 40.67            30.39 
      GROUP 1-A..................$ 43.14            30.39 
      GROUP 2....................$ 39.41            30.39 
      GROUP 3....................$ 38.08            30.39 
      GROUP 4....................$ 36.94            30.39 
      GROUP 5....................$ 35.80            30.39 
 
  FOOTNOTE: Work suspended by ropes or cables, or work on a 
  Yo-Yo Cat: $.60 per hour additional. 
 
 
  POWER EQUIPMENT OPERATOR CLASSIFICATIONS   
 
  GROUP 1: Operator of helicopter (when used in erection work); 
  Hydraulic excavator, 7 cu. yds. and over; Power shovels, 
  over 7 cu. yds. 
 
  GROUP 2: Highline cableway; Hydraulic excavator, 3-1/2 cu. 
  yds. up to 7 cu. yds.; Licensed construction work boat 
  operator, on site; Power blade operator (finish); Power 
  shovels, over 1 cu. yd. up to and including 7 cu. yds. 
  m.r.c. 
 
  GROUP 3: Asphalt milling machine; Cable backhoe; Combination 
  backhoe and loader over 3/4 cu. yds.; Continuous flight tie 
  back machine assistant to engineer or mechanic; Crane 
  mounted continuous flight tie back machine, tonnage to 
  apply; Crane mounted drill attachment, tonnage to apply; 
  Dozer, slope brd; Gradall; Hydraulic excavator, up to 3 1/2 
  cu. yds.; Loader 4 cu. yds. and over; Long reach excavator; 
  Multiple engine scraper (when used as push pull); Power 
  shovels, up to and including 1 cu. yd.; Pre-stress wire 
  wrapping machine; Side boom cat, 572 or larger; Track 
  loader 4 cu. yds. and over; Wheel excavator (up to and 
  including 750 cu. yds. per hour) 
 
  GROUP 4: Asphalt plant engineer/box person; Chicago boom; 
  Combination backhoe and loader up to and including 3/4 cu. 
  yd.; Concrete batch plant (wet or dry); Dozer and/or push 
  cat; Pull- type elevating loader; Gradesetter, grade 
  checker (GPS, mechanical or otherwise); Grooving and 
  grinding machine; Heading shield operator; Heavy-duty 
  drilling equipment, Hughes, LDH, Watson 3000 or similar; 
  Heavy-duty repairperson and/or welder; Lime spreader; 
  Loader under 4 cu. yds.; Lubrication and service engineer 
  (mobile and grease rack); Mechanical finishers or spreader 
  machine (asphalt, Barber-Greene and similar); Miller 
  Formless M-9000 slope paver or similar; Portable crushing 
  and screening plants; Power blade support; Roller operator, 
  asphalt; Rubber-tired scraper, self-loading (paddle-wheels, 
  etc.); Rubber- tired earthmoving equipment (scrapers); Slip 
  form paver (concrete); Small tractor with drag; Soil 
  stabilizer (P & H or equal); Spider plow and spider puller; 
  Tubex pile rig; Unlicensed constuction work boat operator, 
  on site; Timber skidder; Track loader up to 4 yds.; 
  Tractor-drawn scraper; Tractor, compressor drill 
  combination; Welder; Woods-Mixer (and other similar Pugmill 
  equipment) 
 
  GROUP 5: Cast-in-place pipe laying machine; Combination 
  slusher and motor operator; Concrete conveyor or concrete 
  pump, truck or equipment mounted; Concrete conveyor, 
  building site; Concrete pump or pumpcrete gun; Drilling 
  equipment, Watson 2000, Texoma 700 or similar; Drilling and 
  boring machinery, horizontal (not to apply to waterliners, 
333 of 574

--- page 334 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
18/70
  wagon drills or jackhammers); Concrete mixer/all; Person 
  and/or material hoist; Mechanical finishers (concrete) 
  (Clary, Johnson, Bidwell Bridge Deck or similar types); 
  Mechanical burm, curb and/or curb and gutter machine, 
  concrete or asphalt); Mine or shaft hoist; Portable 
  crusher; Power jumbo operator (setting slip-forms, etc., in 
  tunnels); Screed (automatic or manual); Self-propelled 
  compactor with dozer; Tractor with boom D6 or smaller; 
  Trenching machine, maximum digging capacity over 5 ft. 
  depth; Vermeer T-600B rock cutter or similar 
 
  GROUP 6: Armor-Coater (or similar); Ballast jack tamper; 
  Boom- type backfilling machine; Assistant plant engineer; 
  Bridge and/or gantry crane; Chemical grouting machine, 
  truck-mounted; Chip spreading machine operator; Concrete 
  saw (self-propelled unit on streets, highways, airports and 
  canals); Deck engineer; Drilling equipment Texoma 600, 
  Hughes 200 Series or similar up to and including 30 ft. 
  m.r.c.; Drill doctor; Helicopter radio operator; 
  Hydro-hammer or similar; Line master; Skidsteer loader, 
  Bobcat larger than 743 series or similar (with 
  attachments); Locomotive; Lull hi-lift or similar; Oiler, 
  truck mounted equipment; Pavement breaker, truck-mounted, 
  with compressor combination; Paving fabric installation 
  and/or laying machine; Pipe bending machine (pipelines 
  only); Pipe wrapping machine (tractor propelled and 
  supported); Screed (except asphaltic concrete paving); 
  Self- propelled pipeline wrapping machine; Tractor; 
  Self-loading chipper; Concrete barrier moving machine 
 
  GROUP 7: Ballast regulator; Boom truck or dual-purpose 
  A-frame truck, non-rotating - under 15 tons; Cary lift or 
  similar; Combination slurry mixer and/or cleaner; Drilling 
  equipment, 20 ft. and under m.r.c.; Firetender (hot plant); 
  Grouting machine operator; Highline cableway signalperson; 
  Stationary belt loader (Kolman or similar); Lift slab 
  machine (Vagtborg and similar types); Maginnes internal 
  full slab vibrator; Material hoist (1 drum); Mechanical 
  trench shield; Pavement breaker with or without compressor 
  combination); Pipe cleaning machine (tractor propelled and 
  supported); Post driver; Roller (except asphalt); Chip 
  Seal; Self-propelled automatically applied concrete curing 
  mahcine (on streets, highways, airports and canals); 
  Self-propelled compactor (without dozer); Signalperson; 
  Slip-form pumps (lifting device for concrete forms); Tie 
  spacer; Tower mobile; Trenching machine, maximum digging 
  capacity up to and including 5 ft. depth; Truck- type loader 
 
  GROUP 8: Bit sharpener; Boiler tender; Box operator; 
  Brakeperson; Combination mixer and compressor 
  (shotcrete/gunite); Compressor operator; Deckhand; Fire 
  tender; Forklift (under 20 ft.); Generator; 
  Gunite/shotcrete equipment operator; Hydraulic monitor; Ken 
  seal machine (or similar); Mixermobile; Oiler; Pump 
  operator; Refrigeration plant; Reservoir-debris tug (self- 
  propelled floating); Ross Carrier (construction site); 
  Rotomist operator; Self-propelled tape machine; Shuttlecar; 
  Self-propelled power sweeper operator (includes vacuum 
  sweeper);  Slusher operator; Surface heater; Switchperson; 
  Tar pot firetender; Tugger hoist, single drum; Vacuum 
  cooling plant; Welding machine (powered other than by 
  electricity) 
 
  GROUP 8-A: Elevator operator; Skidsteer loader-Bobcat 743 
  series or smaller, and similar (without attachments); Mini 
334 of 574

--- page 335 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
19/70
  excavator under 25 H.P. (backhoe-trencher); Tub grinder 
  wood chipper 
 
---------------------------------------------------------- 
              
     ALL CRANES AND ATTACHMENTS  
 
  GROUP 1: Clamshell and dragline over 7 cu. yds.; Crane, over 
  100 tons; Derrick, over 100 tons; Derrick barge 
  pedestal-mounted, over 100 tons; Self-propelled boom-type 
  lifting device, over 100 tons 
 
  GROUP 2: Clamshell and dragline over 1 cu. yd. up to and 
  including 7 cu. yds.; Crane, over 45 tons up to and 
  including 100 tons; Derrick barge, 100 tons and under; 
  Self-propelled boom-type lifting device, over 45 tons; 
  Tower crane 
 
  GROUP 3: Clamshell and dragline up to and including 1 cu. 
  yd.; Cranes 45 tons and under; Self-propelled boom-type 
  lifting device 45 tons and under; 
 
  GROUP 4: Boom Truck or dual purpose A-frame truck, 
  non-rotating over 15 tons; Truck-mounted rotating 
  telescopic boom type lifting device, Manitex or similar 
  (boom truck) over 15 tons; Truck-mounted rotating 
  telescopic boom type lifting device, Manitex or similar 
  (boom truck) - under 15 tons; 
 
----------------------------------------------------------- 
 
                 PILEDRIVERS   
 
  GROUP 1: Derrick barge pedestal mounted over 100 tons; 
  Clamshell over 7 cu. yds.; Self-propelled boom-type lifting 
  device over 100 tons; Truck crane or crawler, land or barge 
  mounted over 100 tons 
 
  GROUP 2: Derrick barge pedestal mounted 45 tons to and 
  including 100 tons; Clamshell up to and including 7 cu. 
  yds.; Self-propelled boom-type lifting device over 45 tons; 
  Truck crane or crawler, land or barge mounted, over 45 tons 
  up to and including 100 tons; Fundex F-12 hydraulic pile rig 
 
  GROUP 3: Derrick barge pedestal mounted under 45 tons; Self- 
  propelled boom-type lifting device 45 tons and under; 
  Skid/scow piledriver, any tonnage; Truck crane or crawler, 
  land or barge mounted 45 tons and under 
 
  GROUP 4: Assistant operator in lieu of assistant to engineer; 
  Forklift, 10 tons and over; Heavy-duty repairperson/welder 
 
GROUP 5: Deck engineer   
 
GROUP 6: Deckhand; Fire tender             
 
------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
            STEEL ERECTORS   
 
  GROUP 1: Crane over 100 tons; Derrick over 100 tons; Self- 
  propelled boom-type lifting device over 100 tons 
 
  GROUP 2: Crane over 45 tons to 100 tons; Derrick under 100 
  tons; Self-propelled boom-type lifting device over 45 tons 
335 of 574

--- page 336 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
20/70
  to 100 tons; Tower crane 
 
  GROUP 3: Crane, 45 tons and under; Self-propelled boom-type 
  lifting device, 45 tons and under 
 
  GROUP 4: Chicago boom; Forklift, 10 tons and over; Heavy-duty 
  repair person/welder 
 
GROUP 5: Boom cat   
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------- 
  -- 
 
  TUNNEL AND UNDERGROUND WORK   
 
  GROUP 1-A: Tunnel bore machine operator, 20' diameter or more 
   
 
  GROUP 1: Heading shield operator; Heavy-duty repairperson; 
  Mucking machine (rubber tired, rail or track type); Raised 
  bore operator (tunnels); Tunnel mole bore operator 
 
  GROUP 2: Combination slusher and motor operator; Concrete 
  pump or pumpcrete gun; Power jumbo operator 
 
GROUP 3: Drill doctor; Mine or shaft hoist   
 
  GROUP 4: Combination slurry mixer cleaner; Grouting Machine 
  operator; Motorman 
 
  GROUP 5: Bit Sharpener; Brakeman; Combination mixer and 
  compressor (gunite); Compressor operator; Oiler; Pump 
  operator; Slusher operator 
----------------------------------------------------------- 
 
AREA DESCRIPTIONS: 
 
  POWER EQUIPMENT OPERATORS, CRANES AND ATTACHMENTS,TUNNEL AND 
  UNDERGROUND  [These areas do not apply to Piledrivers and 
  Steel Erectors] 
 
  AREA 1: ALAMEDA, CALAVERAS, CONTRA COSTA, FRESNO, KINGS, 
  MADERA, MARIPOSA, MERCED, MONTEREY, SAN BENITO, SAN 
  FRANCISCO, SAN JOAQUIN, SAN MATEO, SANTA CLARA, SANTA CRUZ, 
  STANISLAUS, TUOLUMNE 
AREA 2 -NOTED BELOW 
 
  THE REMAINING COUNTIES ARE SPLIT BETWEEN AREA 1 AND AREA 2 AS 
  NOTED BELOW: 
 
CALAVERAS COUNTY: 
Area 1: Remainder 
Area 2: Eastern Part 
 
FRESNO COUNTY: 
Area 1: Remainder 
Area 2: Eastern Part 
 
MADERA COUNTY: 
Area 1: Remainder 
Area 2: Eastern Part 
 
MARIPOSA COUNTY: 
Area 1: Remainder 
Area 2: Eastern Part 
336 of 574

--- page 337 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
21/70
 
MONTEREY COUNTY: 
Area 1: Remainder 
Area 2: Southwestern part 
 
TUOLUMNE COUNTY: 
Area 1: Remainder 
Area 2: Eastern Part 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ENGI0003-008 07/01/2017 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Dredging: (DREDGING:    
CLAMSHELL & DIPPER DREDGING;     
HYDRAULIC SUCTION DREDGING:)   
     AREA 1: 
      (1) Leverman...............$ 44.77            31.25 
      (2) Dredge Dozer; Heavy  
      duty repairman.............$ 39.81            31.25 
      (3) Booster Pump  
      Operator; Deck    
      Engineer; Deck mate;  
      Dredge Tender; Winch  
      Operator...................$ 38.69            31.25 
      (4) Bargeman; Deckhand;  
      Fireman; Leveehand; Oiler..$ 35.39            31.25 
     AREA 2: 
      (1) Leverman...............$ 46.77            31.25 
      (2) Dredge Dozer; Heavy  
      duty repairman.............$ 41.81            31.25 
      (3) Booster Pump  
      Operator; Deck    
      Engineer; Deck mate;  
      Dredge Tender; Winch  
      Operator...................$ 40.69            31.25 
      (4) Bargeman; Deckhand;  
      Fireman; Leveehand; Oiler..$ 37.39            31.25 
 
AREA DESCRIPTIONS   
 
  AREA 1: ALAMEDA,BUTTE, CONTRA COSTA, KINGS, MARIN, MERCED, 
  NAPA, SACRAMENTO, SAN BENITO, SAN FRANCISCO, SAN JOAQUIN, 
  SAN MATEO, SANTA CLARA, SANTA CRUZ, SOLANO, STANISLAUS, 
  SUTTER, YOLO, AND YUBA COUNTIES 
 
AREA 2:  MODOC COUNTY 
 
  THE REMAINGING COUNTIES ARE SPLIT BETWEEN AREA 1 AND AREA 2 
  AS NOTED BELOW: 
 
ALPINE COUNTY: 
Area 1:  Northernmost part 
Area 2:  Remainder 
 
CALAVERAS COUNTY:  
Area 1: Remainder  
Area 2: Eastern part   
 
COLUSA COUNTY: 
Area 1:  Eastern part 
Area 2:  Remainder 
 
ELDORADO COUNTY: 
337 of 574

--- page 338 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
22/70
Area 1:  North Central part 
Area 2:  Remainder 
  
FRESNO COUNTY:  
Area 1: Remainder  
Area 2: Eastern part   
 
GLENN COUNTY: 
Area 1:  Eastern part 
Area 2: Remainder   
 
LASSEN COUNTY: 
  Area 1:  Western part along the Southern portion of border 
  with Shasta County 
Area 2:  Remainder 
 
MADERA COUNTY:  
Area 1: Except Eastern part  
Area 2: Eastern part   
 
MARIPOSA COUNTY  
Area 1: Except Eastern part  
Area 2: Eastern part   
 
MONTERREY COUNTY  
Area 1: Except Southwestern part  
Area 2: Southwestern part   
 
NEVADA COUNTY: 
  Area 1:  All but the Northern portion along the border of 
  Sierra County 
Area 2:  Remainder 
 
PLACER COUNTY: 
Area 1:  Al but the Central portion 
Area 2:  Remainder 
 
PLUMAS COUNTY: 
Area 1:  Western portion 
Area 2:  Remainder 
 
SHASTA COUNTY: 
Area 1:  All but the Northeastern corner 
Area 2:  Remainder 
 
SIERRA COUNTY: 
Area 1:  Western part 
Area 2:  Remainder 
 
SISKIYOU COUNTY: 
Area 1:  Central part 
Area 2:  Remainder 
 
SONOMA COUNTY: 
Area 1:  All but the Northwestern corner 
Area 2:  Remainder 
 
TEHAMA COUNTY: 
  Area 1:  All but the Western border with Mendocino & Trinity 
  Counties 
Area 2:  Remainder 
 
TRINITY COUNTY: 
  Area 1:  East Central part and the Northeastern border with 
  Shasta County 
338 of 574

--- page 339 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
23/70
Area 2:  Remainder 
 
TUOLUMNE COUNTY:  
Area 1: Except Eastern part  
Area 2: Eastern part 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ENGI0003-019 07/26/2017 
 
SEE AREA DESCRIPTIONS BELOW 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
OPERATOR:  Power Equipment    
(LANDSCAPE WORK ONLY)   
     GROUP 1 
      AREA 1.....................$ 34.05            28.73 
      AREA 2.....................$ 36.05            28.73 
     GROUP 2 
      AREA 1.....................$ 30.45            28.73 
      AREA 2.....................$ 32.45            28.73 
     GROUP 3 
      AREA 1.....................$ 25.84            28.73 
      AREA 2.....................$ 27.84            28.73 
 
GROUP DESCRIPTIONS: 
 
  GROUP 1:  Landscape Finish Grade Operator: All finish grade 
  work regardless of equipment used, and all equipment with a 
  rating more than 65 HP. 
 
  GROUP 2:  Landscape Operator up to 65 HP: All equipment with 
  a manufacturer's rating of 65 HP or less except equipment 
  covered by Group 1 or Group 3.  The following equipment 
  shall be included except when used for finish work as long 
  as manufacturer's rating is 65 HP or less: A-Frame and 
  Winch Truck, Backhoe, Forklift, Hydragraphic Seeder 
  Machine, Roller, Rubber-Tired and Track Earthmoving 
  Equipment, Skiploader, Straw Blowers, and Trencher 31 HP up 
  to 65 HP. 
 
  GROUP 3: Landscae Utility Operator: Small Rubber-Tired 
  Tractor, Trencher Under 31 HP. 
 
AREA DESCRIPTIONS: 
 
  AREA 1: ALAMEDA, BUTTE, CONTRA COSTA, KINGS, MARIN,  MERCED, 
  NAPA, SACRAMENTO, SAN BENITO, SAN FRANCISCO, SAN JOAQUIN, 
  SAN MATEO, SANTA CLARA, SANTA CRUZ, SOLANO, STANISLAUS, 
  SUTTER, YOLO, AND YUBA COUNTIES 
 
AREA 2 - MODOC COUNTY 
 
  THE REMAINING COUNTIES ARE SPLIT BETWEEN AREA 1 AND AREA 2 AS 
  NOTED BELOW: 
 
ALPINE COUNTY: 
Area 1: Northernmost part 
Area 2: Remainder 
 
CALAVERAS COUNTY:  
Area 1: Except Eastern part  
Area 2: Eastern part   
 
COLUSA COUNTY: 
339 of 574

--- page 340 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
24/70
Area 1: Eastern part 
Area 2: Remainder 
 
DEL NORTE COUNTY: 
Area 1: Extreme Southwestern corner 
Area 2: Remainder  
 
ELDORADO COUNTY: 
Area 1: North Central part 
Area 2: Remainder 
 
FRESNO COUNTY  
Area 1: Except Eastern part  
Area 2: Eastern part   
 
GLENN COUNTY: 
Area 1: Eastern part 
Area 2: Remainder 
 
HUMBOLDT COUNTY: 
Area 1: Except Eastern and Southwestern parts 
Area 2: Remainder 
 
LAKE COUNTY: 
Area 1: Southern part 
Area 2: Remainder 
 
LASSEN COUNTY: 
  Area 1: Western part along the Southern portion of border 
  with Shasta County 
Area 2: Remainder 
 
MADERA COUNTY  
Area 1: Remainder  
Area 2: Eastern part   
 
MARIPOSA COUNTY  
Area 1: Remainder  
Area 2: Eastern part   
 
MENDOCINO COUNTY: 
Area 1: Central and Southeastern parts 
Area 2: Remainder  
 
MONTEREY COUNTY  
Area 1: Remainder  
Area 2: Southwestern part 
 
NEVADA COUNTY: 
  Area 1: All but the Northern portion along the border of 
  Sierra County 
Area 2: Remainder 
 
PLACER COUNTY: 
Area 1: All but the Central portion 
Area 2: Remainder 
 
PLUMAS COUNTY: 
Area 1: Western portion 
Area 2: Remainder 
 
SHASTA COUNTY: 
Area 1: All but the Northeastern corner 
Area 2: Remainder 
 
340 of 574

--- page 341 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
25/70
SIERRA COUNTY: 
Area 1: Western part 
Area 2: Remainder 
 
SISKIYOU COUNTY: 
Area 1: Central part 
Area 2: Remainder 
 
SONOMA COUNTY: 
Area 1: All but the Northwestern corner 
Area 2: Reaminder 
 
TEHAMA COUNTY: 
  Area 1: All but the Western border with mendocino & Trinity 
  Counties 
Area 2: Remainder 
 
TRINITY COUNTY: 
  Area 1: East Central part and the Northeaster border with 
  Shasta County 
Area 2: Remainder 
 
TULARE COUNTY; 
Area 1: Remainder 
Area 2: Eastern part 
 
TUOLUMNE COUNTY: 
Area 1: Remainder 
Area 2: Eastern Part 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 IRON0377-002 07/01/2019 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Ironworkers:   
     Fence Erector...............$ 33.58            24.66 
     Ornamental, Reinforcing  
     and Structural..............$ 40.00            33.30 
 
PREMIUM PAY: 
 
$6.00 additional per hour at the following locations: 
 
China Lake Naval Test Station, Chocolate Mountains Naval 
Reserve-Niland, 
Edwards AFB, Fort Irwin Military Station, Fort Irwin Training 
Center-Goldstone, San Clemente Island, San Nicholas Island, 
Susanville Federal Prison, 29 Palms - Marine Corps, U.S. Marine 
Base - Barstow, U.S. Naval Air Facility - Sealey, Vandenberg AFB 
 
$4.00 additional per hour at the following locations: 
 
Army Defense Language Institute - Monterey, Fallon Air Base, 
Naval Post Graduate School - Monterey, Yermo Marine Corps 
Logistics Center 
 
$2.00 additional per hour at the following locations: 
 
Port Hueneme, Port Mugu, U.S. Coast Guard Station - Two Rock 
 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0067-002 01/01/2020 
 
341 of 574

--- page 342 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
26/70
AREA ""A"" - ALAMEDA, CONTRA COSTA, SAN FRANCISCO, SAN MATEO AND 
SANTA CLARA COUNTIES 
 
AREA ""B""  -  CALAVERAS, FRESNO, KINGS, MADERA, MARIPOSA, 
MERCED, MONTEREY, SAN BENITO, SAN JOAQUIN, STANISLAUS, AND 
TUOLUMNE COUNTIES 
 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Asbestos Removal Laborer   
     All Counties................$ 24.00            11.30 
LABORER (Lead Removal)   
     Area A......................$ 31.81            24.61 
     Area B......................$ 30.81            24.61 
 
  ASBESTOS REMOVAL-SCOPE OF WORK: Site mobilization; initial 
  site clean-up; site preparation; removal of 
  asbestos-containing materials from walls and ceilings; or 
  from pipes, boilers and mechanical systems only if they are 
  being scrapped; encapsulation, enclosure and disposal of 
  asbestos-containing materials by hand or with equipment or 
  machinery; scaffolding; fabrication of temporary wooden 
  barriers; and assembly of decontamination stations. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0073-002 06/25/2018 
 
CALAVERAS AND SAN JOAQUIN COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
LABORER (TRAFFIC CONTROL/LANE    
CLOSURE)   
     Escort Driver, Flag Person..$ 29.54            23.65 
     Traffic Control Person I....$ 29.84            23.65 
     Traffic Control Person II...$ 27.34            23.65 
 
  TRAFFIC CONTROL PERSON I: Layout of traffic control, crash 
  cushions, construction area and roadside signage. 
 
  TRAFFIC CONTROL PERSON II: Installation and removal of 
  temporary/permanent signs, markers, delineators and crash 
  cushions. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0073-003 07/01/2018 
 
SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
LABORER   
     Mason Tender-Brick..........$ 31.20            22.20 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0073-005 06/25/2018 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Tunnel and Shaft Laborers:   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 37.82            24.11 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 37.59            24.11 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 37.34            24.11 
     GROUP 4.....................$ 36.89            24.11 
     GROUP 5.....................$ 36.35            24.11 
342 of 574

--- page 343 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
27/70
     Shotcrete Specialist........$ 38.34            24.11 
 
TUNNEL AND SHAFT CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
  GROUP 1: Diamond driller; Groundmen; Gunite and shotcrete 
  nozzlemen 
 
  GROUP 2: Rodmen; Shaft work & raise (below actual or 
  excavated ground level) 
 
  GROUP 3: Bit grinder; Blaster, driller, powdermen, heading; 
  Cherry pickermen - where car is lifted; Concrete finisher 
  in tunnel; Concrete screedman; Grout pumpman and potman; 
  Gunite & shotcrete gunman & potman; Headermen; High 
  pressure nozzleman; Miner - tunnel, including top and 
  bottom man on shaft and raise work; Nipper; Nozzleman on 
  slick line; Sandblaster - potman, Robotic Shotcrete Placer, 
  Segment Erector, Tunnel Muck Hauler, Steel Form raiser and 
  setter; Timberman, retimberman (wood or steel or substitute 
  materials therefore); Tugger (for tunnel laborer work); 
  Cable tender; Chuck tender; Powderman - primer house 
 
  GROUP 4: Vibrator operator, pavement breaker; Bull gang - 
  muckers, trackmen; Concrete crew - includes rodding and 
  spreading, Dumpmen (any method) 
 
  GROUP 5: Grout crew; Reboundman; Swamper/ Brakeman 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0073-007 06/25/2018 
 
CALAVERAS AND SAN JOAQUIN COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
LABORER (CONSTRUCTION CRAFT    
LABORERS)   
     Construction Specialist  
     Group.......................$ 30.49            23.20 
     GROUP 1.....................$ 29.79            23.20 
     GROUP 1-a...................$ 30.01            23.20 
     GROUP 1-c...................$ 29.84            23.20 
     GROUP 1-e...................$ 30.34            23.20 
     GROUP 1-f...................$ 30.37            23.20 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 29.64            23.20 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 29.54            23.20 
     GROUP 4.....................$ 23.23            23.20 
  See groups 1-b and 1-d under laborer classifications. 
LABORER (GARDENERS,    
HORTICULTURAL & LANDSCAPE    
LABORERS)   
     (1) New Construction........$ 29.54            23.20 
     (2) Establishment Warranty  
     Period......................$ 23.23            23.20 
LABORER (GUNITE)   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 29.75            22.31 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 29.25            22.31 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 28.66            22.31 
     GROUP 4.....................$ 28.54            22.31 
LABORER (WRECKING)   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 29.79            23.20 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 29.64            23.20 
 
FOOTNOTES: 
  Laborers working off or with or from bos'n chairs, swinging 
343 of 574

--- page 344 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
28/70
  scaffolds, belts shall receive $0.25 per hour above the 
  applicable wage rate.  This shall not apply to workers 
  entitled to receive the wage rate set forth in Group 1-a 
  below. 
 
  --------------------------------------------------------- 
   
 
LABORER CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
  CONSTRUCTION SPECIALIST GROUP: Asphalt ironer and raker; 
  Chainsaw; Laser beam in connection with laborers' work; 
  Cast-in- place manhole form setter; Pressure pipelayer; 
  Davis trencher - 300 or similar type (and all small 
  trenchers); Blaster; Diamond driller; Multiple unit drill; 
  Hydraulic drill 
 
  GROUP 1: Asphalt spreader boxes (all types); Barko, Wacker 
  and similar type tampers; Buggymobile; Caulker, bander, 
  pipewrapper, conduit layer, plastic pipelayer; Certified 
  hazardous waste worker including Leade Abatement; 
  Compactors of all types; Concrete and magnesite mixer, 1/2 
  yd. and under; Concrete pan work; Concrete sander; Concrete 
  saw; Cribber and/or shoring; Cut granite curb setter; 
  Dri-pak-it machine; Faller, logloader and bucker; Form 
  raiser, slip forms; Green cutter; Headerboard, Hubsetter, 
  aligner, by any method; High pressure blow pipe (1-1/2"" or 
  over, 100 lbs. pressure/over); Hydro seeder and similar 
  type; Jackhammer operator; Jacking of pipe over 12 inches; 
  Jackson and similar type compactor; Kettle tender, pot and 
  worker applying asphalt, lay-kold, creosote, lime, caustic 
  and similar type materials (applying means applying, 
  dipping or handling of such materials); Lagging, sheeting, 
  whaling, bracing, trenchjacking, lagging hammer; Magnesite, 
  epoxyresin, fiberglass, mastic worker (wet or dry); No 
  joint pipe and stripping of same, including repair of 
  voids; Pavement breaker and spader, including tool grinder; 
  Perma curb; Pipelayer (including grade checking in 
  connection with pipelaying); Precast-manhole setter; 
  Pressure pipe tester; Post hole digger, air, gas and 
  electric; Power broom sweeper; Power tampers of all types 
  (except as shown in Group 2); Ram set gun and stud gun; 
  Riprap stonepaver and rock-slinger, including placing of 
  sacked concrete and/or sand (wet or dry) and gabions and 
  similar type; Rotary scarifier or multiple head concrete 
  chipping scarifier; Roto and Ditch Witch; Rototiller; 
  Sandblaster, pot, gun, nozzle operators; Signalling and 
  rigging; Tank cleaner; Tree climber; Turbo blaster; 
  Vibrascreed, bull float in connection with laborers' work; 
  Vibrator; Hazardous waste worker (lead removal); Asbestos 
  and mold removal worker 
 
  GROUP 1-a: Joy drill model TWM-2A; Gardner-Denver model DH143 
  and similar type drills; Track driller; Jack leg driller; 
  Wagon driller; Mechanical drillers, all types regardless of 
  type or method of power; Mechanical pipe layers, all types 
  regardless of type or method of power; Blaster and powder; 
  All work of loading, placing and blasting of all powder and 
  explosives of whatever type regardless of method used for 
  such loading and placing; High scalers (including drilling 
  of same); Tree topper; Bit grinder 
 
  GROUP 1-b: Sewer cleaners shall receive $4.00 per day above 
  Group 1 wage rates.  ""Sewer cleaner"" means any worker who 
  handles or comes in contact with raw sewage in small 
344 of 574

--- page 345 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
29/70
  diameter sewers.  Those who work inside recently active, 
  large diameter sewers, and all recently active sewer 
  manholes shal receive $5.00 per day above Group 1 wage 
  rates. 
 
  GROUP 1-c: Burning and welding in connection with laborers' 
  work; Synthetic thermoplastics and similar type welding 
 
  GROUP 1-d: Maintenance and repair track and road beds.  All 
  employees performing work covered herein shall receive $ 
  .25 per hour above their regular rate for all work 
  performed on underground structures not specifically 
  covered herein.  This paragraph shall not be construed to 
  apply to work below ground level in open cut.  It shall 
  apply to cut and cover work of subway construction after 
  the temporary cover has been placed. 
 
  GROUP 1-e: Work on and/or in bell hole footings and shafts 
  thereof, and work on and in deep footings.  (A deep footing 
  is a hole 15 feet or more in depth.)  In the event the 
  depth of the footing is unknown at the commencement of 
  excavation, and the final depth exceeds 15 feet, the deep 
  footing wage rate would apply to all employees for each and 
  every day worked on or in the excavation of the footing 
  from the date of inception. 
 
  GROUP 1-f: Wire winding machine in connection with guniting 
  or shot crete 
 
  GROUP 2: Asphalt shoveler; Cement dumper and handling dry 
  cement or gypsum; Choke-setter and rigger (clearing work); 
  Concrete bucket dumper and chute; Concrete chipping and 
  grinding; Concrete laborer (wet or dry); Driller tender, 
  chuck tender, nipper; Guinea chaser (stake), grout crew; 
  High pressure nozzle, adductor; Hydraulic monitor (over 100 
  lbs. pressure); Loading and unloading, carrying and hauling 
  of all rods and materials for use in reinforcing concrete 
  construction; Pittsburgh chipper and similar type brush 
  shredders; Sloper; Single foot, hand-held, pneumatic 
  tamper; All pneumatic, air, gas and electric tools not 
  listed in Groups 1 through 1-f; Jacking of pipe - under 12 
  inches 
 
  GROUP 3: Construction laborers, including bridge and general 
  laborer; Dump, load spotter; Flag person; Fire watcher; 
  Fence erector; Guardrail erector; Gardener, horticultural 
  and landscape laborer; Jetting; Limber, brush loader and 
  piler; Pavement marker (button setter); Maintenance, repair 
  track and road beds; Streetcar and railroad construction 
  track laborer; Temporary air and water lines, Victaulic or 
  similar; Tool room attendant (jobsite only) 
 
  GROUP 4: Final clean-up work of debris, grounds and building 
  including but not limited to: street cleaner; cleaning and 
  washing windows; brick cleaner (jobsite only); material 
  cleaner (jobsite only).  The classification ""material 
  cleaner"" is to be utilized under the following conditions: 
A: at demolition site for the salvage of the material.      
  B: at the conclusion of a job where the material is to be 
  salvaged and stocked to be reused on another job. 
  C: for the cleaning of salvage material at the jobsite or 
  temporary jobsite yard. 
 
  The material cleaner classification should not be  used in 
  the performance of ""form stripping, cleaning  and oiling 
345 of 574

--- page 346 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
30/70
  and moving to the next point of erection"". 
 
-------------------------------------------------------- 
 
GUNITE LABORER CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
GROUP 1: Structural Nozzleman  
 
GROUP 2: Nozzleman, Gunman, Potman, Groundman  
 
GROUP 3: Reboundman  
 
GROUP 4: Gunite laborer               
 
---------------------------------------------------------- 
 
WRECKING WORK LABORER CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
  GROUP 1: Skilled wrecker (removing and salvaging of sash, 
  windows and materials) 
 
  GROUP 2: Semi-skilled wrecker (salvaging of other building 
  materials) 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0073-009 07/01/2018 
 
CALAVERAS AND SAN JOAQUIN COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
LABORER (Plaster Tender).........$ 32.02            23.00 
 
Work on a swing stage scaffold: $1.00 per hour additional. 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0261-003 06/25/2018 
 
SAN FRANCISCO AND SAN MATEO COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
LABORER (TRAFFIC CONTROL/LANE    
CLOSURE)   
     Escort Driver, Flag Person..$ 20.54            23.65 
     Traffic Control Person I....$ 30.84            23.65 
     Traffic Control Person II...$ 28.34            23.65 
 
  TRAFFIC CONTROL PERSON I: Layout of traffic control, crash 
  cushions, construction area and roadside signage. 
 
  TRAFFIC CONTROL PERSON II: Installation and removal of 
  temporary/permanent signs, markers, delineators and crash 
  cushions. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0261-005 06/25/2018 
 
SAN FRANCISCO AND SAN MATEO COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Tunnel and Shaft Laborers:   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 37.82            24.11 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 37.59            24.11 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 37.34            24.11 
346 of 574

--- page 347 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
31/70
     GROUP 4.....................$ 36.89            24.11 
     GROUP 5.....................$ 36.35            24.11 
     Shotcrete Specialist........$ 38.34            24.11 
 
TUNNEL AND SHAFT CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
  GROUP 1: Diamond driller; Groundmen; Gunite and shotcrete 
  nozzlemen 
 
  GROUP 2: Rodmen; Shaft work & raise (below actual or 
  excavated ground level) 
 
  GROUP 3: Bit grinder; Blaster, driller, powdermen, heading; 
  Cherry pickermen - where car is lifted; Concrete finisher 
  in tunnel; Concrete screedman; Grout pumpman and potman; 
  Gunite & shotcrete gunman & potman; Headermen; High 
  pressure nozzleman; Miner - tunnel, including top and 
  bottom man on shaft and raise work; Nipper; Nozzleman on 
  slick line; Sandblaster - potman, Robotic Shotcrete Placer, 
  Segment Erector, Tunnel Muck Hauler, Steel Form raiser and 
  setter; Timberman, retimberman (wood or steel or substitute 
  materials therefore); Tugger (for tunnel laborer work); 
  Cable tender; Chuck tender; Powderman - primer house 
 
  GROUP 4: Vibrator operator, pavement breaker; Bull gang - 
  muckers, trackmen; Concrete crew - includes rodding and 
  spreading, Dumpmen (any method) 
 
  GROUP 5: Grout crew; Reboundman; Swamper/ Brakeman 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0261-009 06/25/2018 
 
SAN FRANCISCO, AND SAN MATEO COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
LABORER (CONSTRUCTION CRAFT    
LABORERS - AREA A:)   
     Construction Specialist  
     Group.......................$ 31.49            23.20 
     GROUP 1.....................$ 30.79            23.20 
     GROUP 1-a...................$ 31.01            23.20 
     GROUP 1-c...................$ 30.84            23.20 
     GROUP 1-e...................$ 31.34            23.20 
     GROUP 1-f...................$ 31.37            23.20 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 30.64            23.20 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 30.54            23.20 
     GROUP 4.....................$ 24.23            23.20 
  See groups 1-b and 1-d under laborer classifications. 
LABORER (GARDENERS,    
HORTICULTURAL & LANDSCAPE    
LABORERS - AREA A:)   
     (1) New Construction........$ 30.54            23.20 
     (2) Establishment Warranty  
     Period......................$ 24.23            23.20 
LABORER (WRECKING - AREA A:)   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 30.79            23.20 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 30.64            23.20 
Laborers: (GUNITE - AREA A:)   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 30.75            22.31 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 30.25            22.31 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 29.66            22.31 
     GROUP 4.....................$ 29.54            22.31 
 
347 of 574

--- page 348 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
32/70
FOOTNOTES: 
  Laborers working off or with or from bos'n chairs, swinging 
  scaffolds, belts shall receive $0.25 per hour above the 
  applicable wage rate.  This shall not apply to workers 
  entitled to receive the wage rate set forth in Group 1-a 
  below. 
 
  --------------------------------------------------------- 
   
 
LABORER CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
  CONSTRUCTION SPECIALIST GROUP: Asphalt ironer and raker; 
  Chainsaw; Laser beam in connection with laborers' work; 
  Cast-in- place manhole form setter; Pressure pipelayer; 
  Davis trencher - 300 or similar type (and all small 
  trenchers); Blaster; Diamond driller; Multiple unit drill; 
  Hydraulic drill 
 
  GROUP 1: Asphalt spreader boxes (all types); Barko, Wacker 
  and similar type tampers; Buggymobile; Caulker, bander, 
  pipewrapper, conduit layer, plastic pipelayer; Certified 
  hazardous waste worker including Leade Abatement; 
  Compactors of all types; Concrete and magnesite mixer, 1/2 
  yd. and under; Concrete pan work; Concrete sander; Concrete 
  saw; Cribber and/or shoring; Cut granite curb setter; 
  Dri-pak-it machine; Faller, logloader and bucker; Form 
  raiser, slip forms; Green cutter; Headerboard, Hubsetter, 
  aligner, by any method; High pressure blow pipe (1-1/2"" or 
  over, 100 lbs. pressure/over); Hydro seeder and similar 
  type; Jackhammer operator; Jacking of pipe over 12 inches; 
  Jackson and similar type compactor; Kettle tender, pot and 
  worker applying asphalt, lay-kold, creosote, lime, caustic 
  and similar type materials (applying means applying, 
  dipping or handling of such materials); Lagging, sheeting, 
  whaling, bracing, trenchjacking, lagging hammer; Magnesite, 
  epoxyresin, fiberglass, mastic worker (wet or dry); No 
  joint pipe and stripping of same, including repair of 
  voids; Pavement breaker and spader, including tool grinder; 
  Perma curb; Pipelayer (including grade checking in 
  connection with pipelaying); Precast-manhole setter; 
  Pressure pipe tester; Post hole digger, air, gas and 
  electric; Power broom sweeper; Power tampers of all types 
  (except as shown in Group 2); Ram set gun and stud gun; 
  Riprap stonepaver and rock-slinger, including placing of 
  sacked concrete and/or sand (wet or dry) and gabions and 
  similar type; Rotary scarifier or multiple head concrete 
  chipping scarifier; Roto and Ditch Witch; Rototiller; 
  Sandblaster, pot, gun, nozzle operators; Signalling and 
  rigging; Tank cleaner; Tree climber; Turbo blaster; 
  Vibrascreed, bull float in connection with laborers' work; 
  Vibrator; Hazardous waste worker (lead removal); Asbestos 
  and mold removal worker 
 
  GROUP 1-a: Joy drill model TWM-2A; Gardner-Denver model DH143 
  and similar type drills; Track driller; Jack leg driller; 
  Wagon driller; Mechanical drillers, all types regardless of 
  type or method of power; Mechanical pipe layers, all types 
  regardless of type or method of power; Blaster and powder; 
  All work of loading, placing and blasting of all powder and 
  explosives of whatever type regardless of method used for 
  such loading and placing; High scalers (including drilling 
  of same); Tree topper; Bit grinder 
 
  GROUP 1-b: Sewer cleaners shall receive $4.00 per day above 
348 of 574

--- page 349 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
33/70
  Group 1 wage rates.  ""Sewer cleaner"" means any worker who 
  handles or comes in contact with raw sewage in small 
  diameter sewers.  Those who work inside recently active, 
  large diameter sewers, and all recently active sewer 
  manholes shal receive $5.00 per day above Group 1 wage 
  rates. 
 
  GROUP 1-c: Burning and welding in connection with laborers' 
  work; Synthetic thermoplastics and similar type welding 
 
  GROUP 1-d: Maintenance and repair track and road beds.  All 
  employees performing work covered herein shall receive $ 
  .25 per hour above their regular rate for all work 
  performed on underground structures not specifically 
  covered herein.  This paragraph shall not be construed to 
  apply to work below ground level in open cut.  It shall 
  apply to cut and cover work of subway construction after 
  the temporary cover has been placed. 
 
  GROUP 1-e: Work on and/or in bell hole footings and shafts 
  thereof, and work on and in deep footings.  (A deep footing 
  is a hole 15 feet or more in depth.)  In the event the 
  depth of the footing is unknown at the commencement of 
  excavation, and the final depth exceeds 15 feet, the deep 
  footing wage rate would apply to all employees for each and 
  every day worked on or in the excavation of the footing 
  from the date of inception. 
 
  GROUP 1-f: Wire winding machine in connection with guniting 
  or shot crete 
 
  GROUP 2: Asphalt shoveler; Cement dumper and handling dry 
  cement or gypsum; Choke-setter and rigger (clearing work); 
  Concrete bucket dumper and chute; Concrete chipping and 
  grinding; Concrete laborer (wet or dry); Driller tender, 
  chuck tender, nipper; Guinea chaser (stake), grout crew; 
  High pressure nozzle, adductor; Hydraulic monitor (over 100 
  lbs. pressure); Loading and unloading, carrying and hauling 
  of all rods and materials for use in reinforcing concrete 
  construction; Pittsburgh chipper and similar type brush 
  shredders; Sloper; Single foot, hand-held, pneumatic 
  tamper; All pneumatic, air, gas and electric tools not 
  listed in Groups 1 through 1-f; Jacking of pipe - under 12 
  inches 
 
  GROUP 3: Construction laborers, including bridge and general 
  laborer; Dump, load spotter; Flag person; Fire watcher; 
  Fence erector; Guardrail erector; Gardener, horticultural 
  and landscape laborer; Jetting; Limber, brush loader and 
  piler; Pavement marker (button setter); Maintenance, repair 
  track and road beds; Streetcar and railroad construction 
  track laborer; Temporary air and water lines, Victaulic or 
  similar; Tool room attendant (jobsite only) 
 
  GROUP 4: Final clean-up work of debris, grounds and building 
  including but not limited to: street cleaner; cleaning and 
  washing windows; brick cleaner (jobsite only); material 
  cleaner (jobsite only).  The classification ""material 
  cleaner"" is to be utilized under the following conditions: 
A: at demolition site for the salvage of the material.      
  B: at the conclusion of a job where the material is to be 
  salvaged and stocked to be reused on another job. 
  C: for the cleaning of salvage material at the jobsite or 
  temporary jobsite yard. 
 
349 of 574

--- page 350 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
34/70
  The material cleaner classification should not be  used in 
  the performance of ""form stripping, cleaning  and oiling 
  and moving to the next point of erection"". 
 
-------------------------------------------------------- 
 
GUNITE LABORER CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
GROUP 1: Structural Nozzleman  
 
GROUP 2: Nozzleman, Gunman, Potman, Groundman  
 
GROUP 3: Reboundman  
 
GROUP 4: Gunite laborer               
 
---------------------------------------------------------- 
 
WRECKING WORK LABORER CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
  GROUP 1: Skilled wrecker (removing and salvaging of sash, 
  windows and materials) 
 
  GROUP 2: Semi-skilled wrecker (salvaging of other building 
  materials) 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0261-011 05/01/2018 
 
SAN FRANCISCO AND SAN MATEO COUNTIES: 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
MASON TENDER, BRICK..............$ 35.37            20.70 
 
  FOOTNOTES: Underground work such as sewers, manholes, catch 
  basins, sewer pipes, telephone conduits, tunnels and cut 
  trenches: $5.00 per day additional. Work in live sewage: 
  $2.50 per day additional. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0261-014 07/01/2017 
 
SAN FRANCISCO AND SAN MATEO COUNTIES: 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
PLASTER TENDER...................$ 34.70            23.11 
 
Work on a swing stage scaffold: $1.00 per hour additional. 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0270-003 06/25/2018 
 
AREA A: SANTA CLARA 
 
 AREA B: MONTEREY, SAN BENITO AND  SANTA CRUZ COUNTIES 
 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
LABORER (TRAFFIC CONTROL/LANE    
CLOSURE)   
     Escort Driver, Flag Person 
      Area A.....................$ 30.54            23.65 
      Area B.....................$ 29.54            23.65 
350 of 574

--- page 351 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
35/70
     Traffic Control Person I 
      Area A.....................$ 30.84            23.65 
      Area B.....................$ 29.84            23.65 
     Traffic Control Person II 
      Area A.....................$ 28.34            23.65 
      Area B.....................$ 27.34            23.65 
 
  TRAFFIC CONTROL PERSON I: Layout of traffic control, crash 
  cushions, construction area and roadside signage. 
 
  TRAFFIC CONTROL PERSON II: Installation and removal of 
  temporary/permanent signs, markers, delineators and crash 
  cushions. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0270-004 06/25/2018 
 
MONTEREY, SAN BENITO, SANTA CLARA, AND SANTA CRUZ COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Tunnel and Shaft Laborers:   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 37.82            24.11 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 37.59            24.11 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 37.34            24.11 
     GROUP 4.....................$ 36.89            24.11 
     GROUP 5.....................$ 36.35            24.11 
     Shotcrete Specialist........$ 38.34            24.11 
 
TUNNEL AND SHAFT CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
  GROUP 1: Diamond driller; Groundmen; Gunite and shotcrete 
  nozzlemen 
 
  GROUP 2: Rodmen; Shaft work & raise (below actual or 
  excavated ground level) 
 
  GROUP 3: Bit grinder; Blaster, driller, powdermen, heading; 
  Cherry pickermen - where car is lifted; Concrete finisher 
  in tunnel; Concrete screedman; Grout pumpman and potman; 
  Gunite & shotcrete gunman & potman; Headermen; High 
  pressure nozzleman; Miner - tunnel, including top and 
  bottom man on shaft and raise work; Nipper; Nozzleman on 
  slick line; Sandblaster - potman, Robotic Shotcrete Placer, 
  Segment Erector, Tunnel Muck Hauler, Steel Form raiser and 
  setter; Timberman, retimberman (wood or steel or substitute 
  materials therefore); Tugger (for tunnel laborer work); 
  Cable tender; Chuck tender; Powderman - primer house 
 
  GROUP 4: Vibrator operator, pavement breaker; Bull gang - 
  muckers, trackmen; Concrete crew - includes rodding and 
  spreading, Dumpmen (any method) 
 
  GROUP 5: Grout crew; Reboundman; Swamper/ Brakeman 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0270-005 07/01/2018 
 
MONTEREY AND SAN BENITO COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
LABORER   
     Mason Tender-Brick..........$ 31.20            22.20 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
351 of 574

--- page 352 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
36/70
 LABO0270-007 06/25/2018 
 
MONTEREY, SAN BENITO, AND SANTA CRUZ,  COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
LABORER (CONSTRUCTION CRAFT    
LABORERS - AREA B)   
     Construction Specialist  
     Group.......................$ 30.40            23.20 
     GROUP 1.....................$ 29.79            23.20 
     GROUP 1-a...................$ 30.01            23.20 
     GROUP 1-c...................$ 29.84            23.20 
     GROUP 1-e...................$ 30.34            23.20 
     GROUP 1-f...................$ 30.37            23.20 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 29.64            23.20 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 29.54            23.20 
     GROUP 4.....................$ 23.23            23.20 
  See groups 1-b and 1-d under laborer classifications. 
LABORER (GARDENERS,    
HORTICULTURAL & LANDSCAPE    
LABORERS - AREA B)   
     (1) New Construction........$ 29.54            23.20 
     (2) Establishment Warranty  
     Period......................$ 23.23            23.20 
LABORER (GUNITE - AREA B)   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 29.75            22.31 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 29.25            22.31 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 28.66            22.31 
     GROUP 4.....................$ 28.54            22.31 
LABORER (WRECKING - AREA B)   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 29.79            23.20 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 29.64            23.20 
 
FOOTNOTES: 
  Laborers working off or with or from bos'n chairs, swinging 
  scaffolds, belts shall receive $0.25 per hour above the 
  applicable wage rate.  This shall not apply to workers 
  entitled to receive the wage rate set forth in Group 1-a 
  below. 
 
  --------------------------------------------------------- 
   
 
LABORER CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
  CONSTRUCTION SPECIALIST GROUP: Asphalt ironer and raker; 
  Chainsaw; Laser beam in connection with laborers' work; 
  Cast-in- place manhole form setter; Pressure pipelayer; 
  Davis trencher - 300 or similar type (and all small 
  trenchers); Blaster; Diamond driller; Multiple unit drill; 
  Hydraulic drill 
 
  GROUP 1: Asphalt spreader boxes (all types); Barko, Wacker 
  and similar type tampers; Buggymobile; Caulker, bander, 
  pipewrapper, conduit layer, plastic pipelayer; Certified 
  hazardous waste worker including Leade Abatement; 
  Compactors of all types; Concrete and magnesite mixer, 1/2 
  yd. and under; Concrete pan work; Concrete sander; Concrete 
  saw; Cribber and/or shoring; Cut granite curb setter; 
  Dri-pak-it machine; Faller, logloader and bucker; Form 
  raiser, slip forms; Green cutter; Headerboard, Hubsetter, 
  aligner, by any method; High pressure blow pipe (1-1/2"" or 
  over, 100 lbs. pressure/over); Hydro seeder and similar 
  type; Jackhammer operator; Jacking of pipe over 12 inches; 
352 of 574

--- page 353 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
37/70
  Jackson and similar type compactor; Kettle tender, pot and 
  worker applying asphalt, lay-kold, creosote, lime, caustic 
  and similar type materials (applying means applying, 
  dipping or handling of such materials); Lagging, sheeting, 
  whaling, bracing, trenchjacking, lagging hammer; Magnesite, 
  epoxyresin, fiberglass, mastic worker (wet or dry); No 
  joint pipe and stripping of same, including repair of 
  voids; Pavement breaker and spader, including tool grinder; 
  Perma curb; Pipelayer (including grade checking in 
  connection with pipelaying); Precast-manhole setter; 
  Pressure pipe tester; Post hole digger, air, gas and 
  electric; Power broom sweeper; Power tampers of all types 
  (except as shown in Group 2); Ram set gun and stud gun; 
  Riprap stonepaver and rock-slinger, including placing of 
  sacked concrete and/or sand (wet or dry) and gabions and 
  similar type; Rotary scarifier or multiple head concrete 
  chipping scarifier; Roto and Ditch Witch; Rototiller; 
  Sandblaster, pot, gun, nozzle operators; Signalling and 
  rigging; Tank cleaner; Tree climber; Turbo blaster; 
  Vibrascreed, bull float in connection with laborers' work; 
  Vibrator; Hazardous waste worker (lead removal); Asbestos 
  and mold removal worker 
 
  GROUP 1-a: Joy drill model TWM-2A; Gardner-Denver model DH143 
  and similar type drills; Track driller; Jack leg driller; 
  Wagon driller; Mechanical drillers, all types regardless of 
  type or method of power; Mechanical pipe layers, all types 
  regardless of type or method of power; Blaster and powder; 
  All work of loading, placing and blasting of all powder and 
  explosives of whatever type regardless of method used for 
  such loading and placing; High scalers (including drilling 
  of same); Tree topper; Bit grinder 
 
  GROUP 1-b: Sewer cleaners shall receive $4.00 per day above 
  Group 1 wage rates.  ""Sewer cleaner"" means any worker who 
  handles or comes in contact with raw sewage in small 
  diameter sewers.  Those who work inside recently active, 
  large diameter sewers, and all recently active sewer 
  manholes shal receive $5.00 per day above Group 1 wage 
  rates. 
 
  GROUP 1-c: Burning and welding in connection with laborers' 
  work; Synthetic thermoplastics and similar type welding 
 
  GROUP 1-d: Maintenance and repair track and road beds.  All 
  employees performing work covered herein shall receive $ 
  .25 per hour above their regular rate for all work 
  performed on underground structures not specifically 
  covered herein.  This paragraph shall not be construed to 
  apply to work below ground level in open cut.  It shall 
  apply to cut and cover work of subway construction after 
  the temporary cover has been placed. 
 
  GROUP 1-e: Work on and/or in bell hole footings and shafts 
  thereof, and work on and in deep footings.  (A deep footing 
  is a hole 15 feet or more in depth.)  In the event the 
  depth of the footing is unknown at the commencement of 
  excavation, and the final depth exceeds 15 feet, the deep 
  footing wage rate would apply to all employees for each and 
  every day worked on or in the excavation of the footing 
  from the date of inception. 
 
  GROUP 1-f: Wire winding machine in connection with guniting 
  or shot crete 
 
353 of 574

--- page 354 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
38/70
  GROUP 2: Asphalt shoveler; Cement dumper and handling dry 
  cement or gypsum; Choke-setter and rigger (clearing work); 
  Concrete bucket dumper and chute; Concrete chipping and 
  grinding; Concrete laborer (wet or dry); Driller tender, 
  chuck tender, nipper; Guinea chaser (stake), grout crew; 
  High pressure nozzle, adductor; Hydraulic monitor (over 100 
  lbs. pressure); Loading and unloading, carrying and hauling 
  of all rods and materials for use in reinforcing concrete 
  construction; Pittsburgh chipper and similar type brush 
  shredders; Sloper; Single foot, hand-held, pneumatic 
  tamper; All pneumatic, air, gas and electric tools not 
  listed in Groups 1 through 1-f; Jacking of pipe - under 12 
  inches 
 
  GROUP 3: Construction laborers, including bridge and general 
  laborer; Dump, load spotter; Flag person; Fire watcher; 
  Fence erector; Guardrail erector; Gardener, horticultural 
  and landscape laborer; Jetting; Limber, brush loader and 
  piler; Pavement marker (button setter); Maintenance, repair 
  track and road beds; Streetcar and railroad construction 
  track laborer; Temporary air and water lines, Victaulic or 
  similar; Tool room attendant (jobsite only) 
 
  GROUP 4: Final clean-up work of debris, grounds and building 
  including but not limited to: street cleaner; cleaning and 
  washing windows; brick cleaner (jobsite only); material 
  cleaner (jobsite only).  The classification ""material 
  cleaner"" is to be utilized under the following conditions: 
A: at demolition site for the salvage of the material.      
  B: at the conclusion of a job where the material is to be 
  salvaged and stocked to be reused on another job. 
  C: for the cleaning of salvage material at the jobsite or 
  temporary jobsite yard. 
 
  The material cleaner classification should not be  used in 
  the performance of ""form stripping, cleaning  and oiling 
  and moving to the next point of erection"". 
 
-------------------------------------------------------- 
 
GUNITE LABORER CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
GROUP 1: Structural Nozzleman  
 
GROUP 2: Nozzleman, Gunman, Potman, Groundman  
 
GROUP 3: Reboundman  
 
GROUP 4: Gunite laborer               
 
---------------------------------------------------------- 
 
WRECKING WORK LABORER CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
  GROUP 1: Skilled wrecker (removing and salvaging of sash, 
  windows and materials) 
 
  GROUP 2: Semi-skilled wrecker (salvaging of other building 
  materials) 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0270-010 06/25/2018 
 
SANTA CLARA COUNTY 
 
354 of 574

--- page 355 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
39/70
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
LABORER (CONSTRUCTION CRAFT    
LABORERS - AREA A:)   
     Construction Specialist  
     Group.......................$ 31.49            23.20 
     GROUP 1.....................$ 30.79            23.20 
     GROUP 1-a...................$ 31.01            23.20 
     GROUP 1-c...................$ 30.84            23.20 
     GROUP 1-e...................$ 31.34            23.20 
     GROUP 1-f...................$ 30.37            23.20 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 30.64            23.20 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 30.54            23.20 
     GROUP 4.....................$ 24.23            23.20 
  See groups 1-b and 1-d under laborer classifications. 
LABORER (GARDENERS,    
HORTICULTURAL & LANDSCAPE    
LABORERS - AREA A:)   
     (1) New Construction........$ 30.54            23.20 
     (2) Establishment Warranty  
     Period......................$ 24.23            23.20 
LABORER (GUNITE - AREA A:)   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 30.75            22.31 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 30.25            22.31 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 29.66            22.31 
     GROUP 4.....................$ 29.54            22.31 
LABORER (WRECKING - AREA A:)   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 30.79            23.20 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 30.64            23.20 
 
FOOTNOTES: 
  Laborers working off or with or from bos'n chairs, swinging 
  scaffolds, belts shall receive $0.25 per hour above the 
  applicable wage rate.  This shall not apply to workers 
  entitled to receive the wage rate set forth in Group 1-a 
  below. 
 
  --------------------------------------------------------- 
   
 
LABORER CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
  CONSTRUCTION SPECIALIST GROUP: Asphalt ironer and raker; 
  Chainsaw; Laser beam in connection with laborers' work; 
  Cast-in- place manhole form setter; Pressure pipelayer; 
  Davis trencher - 300 or similar type (and all small 
  trenchers); Blaster; Diamond driller; Multiple unit drill; 
  Hydraulic drill 
 
  GROUP 1: Asphalt spreader boxes (all types); Barko, Wacker 
  and similar type tampers; Buggymobile; Caulker, bander, 
  pipewrapper, conduit layer, plastic pipelayer; Certified 
  hazardous waste worker including Leade Abatement; 
  Compactors of all types; Concrete and magnesite mixer, 1/2 
  yd. and under; Concrete pan work; Concrete sander; Concrete 
  saw; Cribber and/or shoring; Cut granite curb setter; 
  Dri-pak-it machine; Faller, logloader and bucker; Form 
  raiser, slip forms; Green cutter; Headerboard, Hubsetter, 
  aligner, by any method; High pressure blow pipe (1-1/2"" or 
  over, 100 lbs. pressure/over); Hydro seeder and similar 
  type; Jackhammer operator; Jacking of pipe over 12 inches; 
  Jackson and similar type compactor; Kettle tender, pot and 
  worker applying asphalt, lay-kold, creosote, lime, caustic 
  and similar type materials (applying means applying, 
  dipping or handling of such materials); Lagging, sheeting, 
355 of 574

--- page 356 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
40/70
  whaling, bracing, trenchjacking, lagging hammer; Magnesite, 
  epoxyresin, fiberglass, mastic worker (wet or dry); No 
  joint pipe and stripping of same, including repair of 
  voids; Pavement breaker and spader, including tool grinder; 
  Perma curb; Pipelayer (including grade checking in 
  connection with pipelaying); Precast-manhole setter; 
  Pressure pipe tester; Post hole digger, air, gas and 
  electric; Power broom sweeper; Power tampers of all types 
  (except as shown in Group 2); Ram set gun and stud gun; 
  Riprap stonepaver and rock-slinger, including placing of 
  sacked concrete and/or sand (wet or dry) and gabions and 
  similar type; Rotary scarifier or multiple head concrete 
  chipping scarifier; Roto and Ditch Witch; Rototiller; 
  Sandblaster, pot, gun, nozzle operators; Signalling and 
  rigging; Tank cleaner; Tree climber; Turbo blaster; 
  Vibrascreed, bull float in connection with laborers' work; 
  Vibrator; Hazardous waste worker (lead removal); Asbestos 
  and mold removal worker 
 
  GROUP 1-a: Joy drill model TWM-2A; Gardner-Denver model DH143 
  and similar type drills; Track driller; Jack leg driller; 
  Wagon driller; Mechanical drillers, all types regardless of 
  type or method of power; Mechanical pipe layers, all types 
  regardless of type or method of power; Blaster and powder; 
  All work of loading, placing and blasting of all powder and 
  explosives of whatever type regardless of method used for 
  such loading and placing; High scalers (including drilling 
  of same); Tree topper; Bit grinder 
 
  GROUP 1-b: Sewer cleaners shall receive $4.00 per day above 
  Group 1 wage rates.  ""Sewer cleaner"" means any worker who 
  handles or comes in contact with raw sewage in small 
  diameter sewers.  Those who work inside recently active, 
  large diameter sewers, and all recently active sewer 
  manholes shal receive $5.00 per day above Group 1 wage 
  rates. 
 
  GROUP 1-c: Burning and welding in connection with laborers' 
  work; Synthetic thermoplastics and similar type welding 
 
  GROUP 1-d: Maintenance and repair track and road beds.  All 
  employees performing work covered herein shall receive $ 
  .25 per hour above their regular rate for all work 
  performed on underground structures not specifically 
  covered herein.  This paragraph shall not be construed to 
  apply to work below ground level in open cut.  It shall 
  apply to cut and cover work of subway construction after 
  the temporary cover has been placed. 
 
  GROUP 1-e: Work on and/or in bell hole footings and shafts 
  thereof, and work on and in deep footings.  (A deep footing 
  is a hole 15 feet or more in depth.)  In the event the 
  depth of the footing is unknown at the commencement of 
  excavation, and the final depth exceeds 15 feet, the deep 
  footing wage rate would apply to all employees for each and 
  every day worked on or in the excavation of the footing 
  from the date of inception. 
 
  GROUP 1-f: Wire winding machine in connection with guniting 
  or shot crete 
 
  GROUP 2: Asphalt shoveler; Cement dumper and handling dry 
  cement or gypsum; Choke-setter and rigger (clearing work); 
  Concrete bucket dumper and chute; Concrete chipping and 
  grinding; Concrete laborer (wet or dry); Driller tender, 
356 of 574

--- page 357 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
41/70
  chuck tender, nipper; Guinea chaser (stake), grout crew; 
  High pressure nozzle, adductor; Hydraulic monitor (over 100 
  lbs. pressure); Loading and unloading, carrying and hauling 
  of all rods and materials for use in reinforcing concrete 
  construction; Pittsburgh chipper and similar type brush 
  shredders; Sloper; Single foot, hand-held, pneumatic 
  tamper; All pneumatic, air, gas and electric tools not 
  listed in Groups 1 through 1-f; Jacking of pipe - under 12 
  inches 
 
  GROUP 3: Construction laborers, including bridge and general 
  laborer; Dump, load spotter; Flag person; Fire watcher; 
  Fence erector; Guardrail erector; Gardener, horticultural 
  and landscape laborer; Jetting; Limber, brush loader and 
  piler; Pavement marker (button setter); Maintenance, repair 
  track and road beds; Streetcar and railroad construction 
  track laborer; Temporary air and water lines, Victaulic or 
  similar; Tool room attendant (jobsite only) 
 
  GROUP 4: Final clean-up work of debris, grounds and building 
  including but not limited to: street cleaner; cleaning and 
  washing windows; brick cleaner (jobsite only); material 
  cleaner (jobsite only).  The classification ""material 
  cleaner"" is to be utilized under the following conditions: 
A: at demolition site for the salvage of the material.      
  B: at the conclusion of a job where the material is to be 
  salvaged and stocked to be reused on another job. 
  C: for the cleaning of salvage material at the jobsite or 
  temporary jobsite yard. 
 
  The material cleaner classification should not be  used in 
  the performance of ""form stripping, cleaning  and oiling 
  and moving to the next point of erection"". 
 
-------------------------------------------------------- 
 
GUNITE LABORER CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
GROUP 1: Structural Nozzleman  
 
GROUP 2: Nozzleman, Gunman, Potman, Groundman  
 
GROUP 3: Reboundman  
 
GROUP 4: Gunite laborer               
 
---------------------------------------------------------- 
 
WRECKING WORK LABORER CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
  GROUP 1: Skilled wrecker (removing and salvaging of sash, 
  windows and materials) 
 
  GROUP 2: Semi-skilled wrecker (salvaging of other building 
  materials) 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0270-011 07/01/2017 
 
MONTEREY, SAN BENITO, SANTA CRUZ, SANTA CLARA COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
LABORER (Plaster Tender).........$ 34.70            21.22 
 
357 of 574

--- page 358 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
42/70
Work on a swing stage scaffold: $1.00 per hour additional. 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0294-001 07/01/2018 
 
FRESNO, KINGS AND MADERA COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
LABORER (Brick)   
     Mason Tender-Brick..........$ 31.20            22.20 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0294-002 06/25/2018 
 
FRESNO, KINGS, AND MADERA COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
LABORER (TRAFFIC CONTROL/LANE    
CLOSURE)   
     Escort Driver, Flag Person..$ 29.54            23.65 
     Traffic Control Person I....$ 29.84            23.65 
     Traffic Control Person II...$ 27.34            23.65 
 
  TRAFFIC CONTROL PERSON I: Layout of traffic control, crash 
  cushions, construction area and roadside signage. 
 
  TRAFFIC CONTROL PERSON II: Installation and removal of 
  temporary/permanent signs, markers, delineators and crash 
  cushions. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0294-005 06/25/2018 
 
FRESNO, KINGS, AND MADERA COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Tunnel and Shaft Laborers:   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 37.82            24.11 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 37.59            24.11 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 37.34            24.11 
     GROUP 4.....................$ 36.89            24.11 
     GROUP 5.....................$ 36.35            24.11 
     Shotcrete Specialist........$ 38.34            24.11 
 
TUNNEL AND SHAFT CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
  GROUP 1: Diamond driller; Groundmen; Gunite and shotcrete 
  nozzlemen 
 
  GROUP 2: Rodmen; Shaft work & raise (below actual or 
  excavated ground level) 
 
  GROUP 3: Bit grinder; Blaster, driller, powdermen, heading; 
  Cherry pickermen - where car is lifted; Concrete finisher 
  in tunnel; Concrete screedman; Grout pumpman and potman; 
  Gunite & shotcrete gunman & potman; Headermen; High 
  pressure nozzleman; Miner - tunnel, including top and 
  bottom man on shaft and raise work; Nipper; Nozzleman on 
  slick line; Sandblaster - potman, Robotic Shotcrete Placer, 
  Segment Erector, Tunnel Muck Hauler, Steel Form raiser and 
  setter; Timberman, retimberman (wood or steel or substitute 
  materials therefore); Tugger (for tunnel laborer work); 
  Cable tender; Chuck tender; Powderman - primer house 
 
358 of 574

--- page 359 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
43/70
  GROUP 4: Vibrator operator, pavement breaker; Bull gang - 
  muckers, trackmen; Concrete crew - includes rodding and 
  spreading, Dumpmen (any method) 
 
  GROUP 5: Grout crew; Reboundman; Swamper/ Brakeman 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0294-008 06/25/2018 
 
FRESNO, KINGS, AND MADERA COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
LABORER (CONSTRUCTION CRAFT    
LABORERS - AREA B:)   
     Construction Specialist  
     Group.......................$ 30.49            23.20 
     GROUP 1.....................$ 29.79            23.20 
     GROUP 1-a...................$ 30.01            23.20 
     GROUP 1-c...................$ 29.84            23.20 
     GROUP 1-e...................$ 30.34            23.20 
     GROUP 1-f...................$ 30.37            23.20 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 29.64            23.20 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 29.54            23.20 
     GROUP 4.....................$ 23.23            23.20 
  See groups 1-b and 1-d under laborer classifications. 
LABORER (GARDENERS,    
HORTICULTURAL & LANDSCAPE    
LABORERS - AREA B:)   
     (1) New Construction........$ 29.54            23.20 
     (2) Establishment Warranty  
     Period......................$ 23.23            23.20 
LABORER (GUNITE - AREA B:)   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 29.75            22.31 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 29.25            22.31 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 28.66            22.31 
     GROUP 4.....................$ 28.54            22.31 
LABORER (WRECKING - AREA B:)   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 29.79            23.20 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 29.64            23.20 
 
FOOTNOTES: 
  Laborers working off or with or from bos'n chairs, swinging 
  scaffolds, belts shall receive $0.25 per hour above the 
  applicable wage rate.  This shall not apply to workers 
  entitled to receive the wage rate set forth in Group 1-a 
  below. 
 
  --------------------------------------------------------- 
   
 
LABORER CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
  CONSTRUCTION SPECIALIST GROUP: Asphalt ironer and raker; 
  Chainsaw; Laser beam in connection with laborers' work; 
  Cast-in- place manhole form setter; Pressure pipelayer; 
  Davis trencher - 300 or similar type (and all small 
  trenchers); Blaster; Diamond driller; Multiple unit drill; 
  Hydraulic drill 
 
  GROUP 1: Asphalt spreader boxes (all types); Barko, Wacker 
  and similar type tampers; Buggymobile; Caulker, bander, 
  pipewrapper, conduit layer, plastic pipelayer; Certified 
  hazardous waste worker including Leade Abatement; 
  Compactors of all types; Concrete and magnesite mixer, 1/2 
359 of 574

--- page 360 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
44/70
  yd. and under; Concrete pan work; Concrete sander; Concrete 
  saw; Cribber and/or shoring; Cut granite curb setter; 
  Dri-pak-it machine; Faller, logloader and bucker; Form 
  raiser, slip forms; Green cutter; Headerboard, Hubsetter, 
  aligner, by any method; High pressure blow pipe (1-1/2"" or 
  over, 100 lbs. pressure/over); Hydro seeder and similar 
  type; Jackhammer operator; Jacking of pipe over 12 inches; 
  Jackson and similar type compactor; Kettle tender, pot and 
  worker applying asphalt, lay-kold, creosote, lime, caustic 
  and similar type materials (applying means applying, 
  dipping or handling of such materials); Lagging, sheeting, 
  whaling, bracing, trenchjacking, lagging hammer; Magnesite, 
  epoxyresin, fiberglass, mastic worker (wet or dry); No 
  joint pipe and stripping of same, including repair of 
  voids; Pavement breaker and spader, including tool grinder; 
  Perma curb; Pipelayer (including grade checking in 
  connection with pipelaying); Precast-manhole setter; 
  Pressure pipe tester; Post hole digger, air, gas and 
  electric; Power broom sweeper; Power tampers of all types 
  (except as shown in Group 2); Ram set gun and stud gun; 
  Riprap stonepaver and rock-slinger, including placing of 
  sacked concrete and/or sand (wet or dry) and gabions and 
  similar type; Rotary scarifier or multiple head concrete 
  chipping scarifier; Roto and Ditch Witch; Rototiller; 
  Sandblaster, pot, gun, nozzle operators; Signalling and 
  rigging; Tank cleaner; Tree climber; Turbo blaster; 
  Vibrascreed, bull float in connection with laborers' work; 
  Vibrator; Hazardous waste worker (lead removal); Asbestos 
  and mold removal worker 
 
  GROUP 1-a: Joy drill model TWM-2A; Gardner-Denver model DH143 
  and similar type drills; Track driller; Jack leg driller; 
  Wagon driller; Mechanical drillers, all types regardless of 
  type or method of power; Mechanical pipe layers, all types 
  regardless of type or method of power; Blaster and powder; 
  All work of loading, placing and blasting of all powder and 
  explosives of whatever type regardless of method used for 
  such loading and placing; High scalers (including drilling 
  of same); Tree topper; Bit grinder 
 
  GROUP 1-b: Sewer cleaners shall receive $4.00 per day above 
  Group 1 wage rates.  ""Sewer cleaner"" means any worker who 
  handles or comes in contact with raw sewage in small 
  diameter sewers.  Those who work inside recently active, 
  large diameter sewers, and all recently active sewer 
  manholes shal receive $5.00 per day above Group 1 wage 
  rates. 
 
  GROUP 1-c: Burning and welding in connection with laborers' 
  work; Synthetic thermoplastics and similar type welding 
 
  GROUP 1-d: Maintenance and repair track and road beds.  All 
  employees performing work covered herein shall receive $ 
  .25 per hour above their regular rate for all work 
  performed on underground structures not specifically 
  covered herein.  This paragraph shall not be construed to 
  apply to work below ground level in open cut.  It shall 
  apply to cut and cover work of subway construction after 
  the temporary cover has been placed. 
 
  GROUP 1-e: Work on and/or in bell hole footings and shafts 
  thereof, and work on and in deep footings.  (A deep footing 
  is a hole 15 feet or more in depth.)  In the event the 
  depth of the footing is unknown at the commencement of 
  excavation, and the final depth exceeds 15 feet, the deep 
360 of 574

--- page 361 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
45/70
  footing wage rate would apply to all employees for each and 
  every day worked on or in the excavation of the footing 
  from the date of inception. 
 
  GROUP 1-f: Wire winding machine in connection with guniting 
  or shot crete 
 
  GROUP 2: Asphalt shoveler; Cement dumper and handling dry 
  cement or gypsum; Choke-setter and rigger (clearing work); 
  Concrete bucket dumper and chute; Concrete chipping and 
  grinding; Concrete laborer (wet or dry); Driller tender, 
  chuck tender, nipper; Guinea chaser (stake), grout crew; 
  High pressure nozzle, adductor; Hydraulic monitor (over 100 
  lbs. pressure); Loading and unloading, carrying and hauling 
  of all rods and materials for use in reinforcing concrete 
  construction; Pittsburgh chipper and similar type brush 
  shredders; Sloper; Single foot, hand-held, pneumatic 
  tamper; All pneumatic, air, gas and electric tools not 
  listed in Groups 1 through 1-f; Jacking of pipe - under 12 
  inches 
 
  GROUP 3: Construction laborers, including bridge and general 
  laborer; Dump, load spotter; Flag person; Fire watcher; 
  Fence erector; Guardrail erector; Gardener, horticultural 
  and landscape laborer; Jetting; Limber, brush loader and 
  piler; Pavement marker (button setter); Maintenance, repair 
  track and road beds; Streetcar and railroad construction 
  track laborer; Temporary air and water lines, Victaulic or 
  similar; Tool room attendant (jobsite only) 
 
  GROUP 4: Final clean-up work of debris, grounds and building 
  including but not limited to: street cleaner; cleaning and 
  washing windows; brick cleaner (jobsite only); material 
  cleaner (jobsite only).  The classification ""material 
  cleaner"" is to be utilized under the following conditions: 
A: at demolition site for the salvage of the material.      
  B: at the conclusion of a job where the material is to be 
  salvaged and stocked to be reused on another job. 
  C: for the cleaning of salvage material at the jobsite or 
  temporary jobsite yard. 
 
  The material cleaner classification should not be  used in 
  the performance of ""form stripping, cleaning  and oiling 
  and moving to the next point of erection"". 
 
-------------------------------------------------------- 
 
GUNITE LABORER CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
GROUP 1: Structural Nozzleman  
 
GROUP 2: Nozzleman, Gunman, Potman, Groundman  
 
GROUP 3: Reboundman  
 
GROUP 4: Gunite laborer               
 
---------------------------------------------------------- 
 
WRECKING WORK LABORER CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
  GROUP 1: Skilled wrecker (removing and salvaging of sash, 
  windows and materials) 
 
  GROUP 2: Semi-skilled wrecker (salvaging of other building 
361 of 574

--- page 362 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
46/70
  materials) 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0294-010 07/01/2018 
 
CALAVERAS, FRESNO, KINGS, MADERA, MARIPOSA, MERCED, SAN 
JOAQUIN, STANISLAUS & TUOLUMNE 
 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Plasterer tender.................$ 32.02            23.00 
 
Work on a swing stage scaffold: $1.00 per hour additional. 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0294-011 07/01/2017 
 
FRESNO, KINGS, AND MADERA COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
LABORER (Plaster Tender).........$ 31.02            22.52 
 
Work on a swing stage scaffold: $1.00 per hour additional. 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0304-002 06/25/2018 
 
ALAMEDA COUNTY 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
LABORER (TRAFFIC CONTROL/LANE    
CLOSURE)   
     Escort Driver, Flag Person..$ 30.54            23.65 
     Traffic Control Person I....$ 30.84            23.65 
     Traffic Control Person II...$ 28.34            23.65 
 
  TRAFFIC CONTROL PERSON I: Layout of traffic control, crash 
  cushions, construction area and roadside signage. 
 
  TRAFFIC CONTROL PERSON II: Installation and removal of 
  temporary/permanent signs, markers, delineators and crash 
  cushions. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0304-003 06/26/2017 
 
ALAMEDA COUNTY 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Tunnel and Shaft Laborers:   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 36.60            24.83 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 36.37            24.83 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 36.12            24.83 
     GROUP 4.....................$ 35.67            24.83 
     GROUP 5.....................$ 35.13            24.83 
     Shotcrete Specialist........$ 37.12            24.83 
 
TUNNEL AND SHAFT CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
  GROUP 1: Diamond driller; Groundmen; Gunite and shotcrete 
  nozzlemen 
 
  GROUP 2: Rodmen; Shaft work & raise (below actual or 
362 of 574

--- page 363 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
47/70
  excavated ground level) 
 
  GROUP 3: Bit grinder; Blaster, driller, powdermen, heading; 
  Cherry pickermen - where car is lifted; Concrete finisher 
  in tunnel; Concrete screedman; Grout pumpman and potman; 
  Gunite & shotcrete gunman & potman; Headermen; High 
  pressure nozzleman; Miner - tunnel, including top and 
  bottom man on shaft and raise work; Nipper; Nozzleman on 
  slick line; Sandblaster - potman, Robotic Shotcrete Placer, 
  Segment Erector, Tunnel Muck Hauler, Steel Form raiser and 
  setter; Timberman, retimberman (wood or steel or substitute 
  materials therefore); Tugger (for tunnel laborer work); 
  Cable tender; Chuck tender; Powderman - primer house 
 
  GROUP 4: Vibrator operator, pavement breaker; Bull gang - 
  muckers, trackmen; Concrete crew - includes rodding and 
  spreading, Dumpmen (any method) 
 
  GROUP 5: Grout crew; Reboundman; Swamper/ Brakeman 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0304-004 06/25/2018 
 
ALAMEDA COUNTY 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
LABORER (CONSTRUCTION CRAFT    
LABORERS - AREA A:)   
     Construction Specialist  
     Group.......................$ 31.49            23.20 
     GROUP 1.....................$ 30.79            23.20 
     GROUP 1-a...................$ 31.01            23.20 
     GROUP 1-c...................$ 30.84            23.20 
     GROUP 1-e...................$ 31.34            23.20 
     GROUP 1-f...................$ 30.37            23.20 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 30.64            23.20 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 30.54            23.20 
     GROUP 4.....................$ 24.23            23.20 
  See groups 1-b and 1-d under laborer classifications. 
LABORER (GARDENERS,    
HORTICULTURAL & LANDSCAPE    
LABORERS - AREA A:)   
     (1) New Construction........$ 30.54            23.20 
     (2) Establishment Warranty  
     Period......................$ 24.23            23.20 
LABORER (GUNITE - AREA A:)   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 30.75            22.31 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 30.25            22.31 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 29.66            22.31 
     GROUP 4.....................$ 29.54            22.31 
LABORER (WRECKING - AREA A:)   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 30.79            23.20 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 30.64            23.20 
 
FOOTNOTES: 
  Laborers working off or with or from bos'n chairs, swinging 
  scaffolds, belts shall receive $0.25 per hour above the 
  applicable wage rate.  This shall not apply to workers 
  entitled to receive the wage rate set forth in Group 1-a 
  below. 
 
  --------------------------------------------------------- 
   
 
363 of 574

--- page 364 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
48/70
LABORER CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
  CONSTRUCTION SPECIALIST GROUP: Asphalt ironer and raker; 
  Chainsaw; Laser beam in connection with laborers' work; 
  Cast-in- place manhole form setter; Pressure pipelayer; 
  Davis trencher - 300 or similar type (and all small 
  trenchers); Blaster; Diamond driller; Multiple unit drill; 
  Hydraulic drill 
 
  GROUP 1: Asphalt spreader boxes (all types); Barko, Wacker 
  and similar type tampers; Buggymobile; Caulker, bander, 
  pipewrapper, conduit layer, plastic pipelayer; Certified 
  hazardous waste worker including Leade Abatement; 
  Compactors of all types; Concrete and magnesite mixer, 1/2 
  yd. and under; Concrete pan work; Concrete sander; Concrete 
  saw; Cribber and/or shoring; Cut granite curb setter; 
  Dri-pak-it machine; Faller, logloader and bucker; Form 
  raiser, slip forms; Green cutter; Headerboard, Hubsetter, 
  aligner, by any method; High pressure blow pipe (1-1/2"" or 
  over, 100 lbs. pressure/over); Hydro seeder and similar 
  type; Jackhammer operator; Jacking of pipe over 12 inches; 
  Jackson and similar type compactor; Kettle tender, pot and 
  worker applying asphalt, lay-kold, creosote, lime, caustic 
  and similar type materials (applying means applying, 
  dipping or handling of such materials); Lagging, sheeting, 
  whaling, bracing, trenchjacking, lagging hammer; Magnesite, 
  epoxyresin, fiberglass, mastic worker (wet or dry); No 
  joint pipe and stripping of same, including repair of 
  voids; Pavement breaker and spader, including tool grinder; 
  Perma curb; Pipelayer (including grade checking in 
  connection with pipelaying); Precast-manhole setter; 
  Pressure pipe tester; Post hole digger, air, gas and 
  electric; Power broom sweeper; Power tampers of all types 
  (except as shown in Group 2); Ram set gun and stud gun; 
  Riprap stonepaver and rock-slinger, including placing of 
  sacked concrete and/or sand (wet or dry) and gabions and 
  similar type; Rotary scarifier or multiple head concrete 
  chipping scarifier; Roto and Ditch Witch; Rototiller; 
  Sandblaster, pot, gun, nozzle operators; Signalling and 
  rigging; Tank cleaner; Tree climber; Turbo blaster; 
  Vibrascreed, bull float in connection with laborers' work; 
  Vibrator; Hazardous waste worker (lead removal); Asbestos 
  and mold removal worker 
 
  GROUP 1-a: Joy drill model TWM-2A; Gardner-Denver model DH143 
  and similar type drills; Track driller; Jack leg driller; 
  Wagon driller; Mechanical drillers, all types regardless of 
  type or method of power; Mechanical pipe layers, all types 
  regardless of type or method of power; Blaster and powder; 
  All work of loading, placing and blasting of all powder and 
  explosives of whatever type regardless of method used for 
  such loading and placing; High scalers (including drilling 
  of same); Tree topper; Bit grinder 
 
  GROUP 1-b: Sewer cleaners shall receive $4.00 per day above 
  Group 1 wage rates.  ""Sewer cleaner"" means any worker who 
  handles or comes in contact with raw sewage in small 
  diameter sewers.  Those who work inside recently active, 
  large diameter sewers, and all recently active sewer 
  manholes shal receive $5.00 per day above Group 1 wage 
  rates. 
 
  GROUP 1-c: Burning and welding in connection with laborers' 
  work; Synthetic thermoplastics and similar type welding 
 
364 of 574

--- page 365 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
49/70
  GROUP 1-d: Maintenance and repair track and road beds.  All 
  employees performing work covered herein shall receive $ 
  .25 per hour above their regular rate for all work 
  performed on underground structures not specifically 
  covered herein.  This paragraph shall not be construed to 
  apply to work below ground level in open cut.  It shall 
  apply to cut and cover work of subway construction after 
  the temporary cover has been placed. 
 
  GROUP 1-e: Work on and/or in bell hole footings and shafts 
  thereof, and work on and in deep footings.  (A deep footing 
  is a hole 15 feet or more in depth.)  In the event the 
  depth of the footing is unknown at the commencement of 
  excavation, and the final depth exceeds 15 feet, the deep 
  footing wage rate would apply to all employees for each and 
  every day worked on or in the excavation of the footing 
  from the date of inception. 
 
  GROUP 1-f: Wire winding machine in connection with guniting 
  or shot crete 
 
  GROUP 2: Asphalt shoveler; Cement dumper and handling dry 
  cement or gypsum; Choke-setter and rigger (clearing work); 
  Concrete bucket dumper and chute; Concrete chipping and 
  grinding; Concrete laborer (wet or dry); Driller tender, 
  chuck tender, nipper; Guinea chaser (stake), grout crew; 
  High pressure nozzle, adductor; Hydraulic monitor (over 100 
  lbs. pressure); Loading and unloading, carrying and hauling 
  of all rods and materials for use in reinforcing concrete 
  construction; Pittsburgh chipper and similar type brush 
  shredders; Sloper; Single foot, hand-held, pneumatic 
  tamper; All pneumatic, air, gas and electric tools not 
  listed in Groups 1 through 1-f; Jacking of pipe - under 12 
  inches 
 
  GROUP 3: Construction laborers, including bridge and general 
  laborer; Dump, load spotter; Flag person; Fire watcher; 
  Fence erector; Guardrail erector; Gardener, horticultural 
  and landscape laborer; Jetting; Limber, brush loader and 
  piler; Pavement marker (button setter); Maintenance, repair 
  track and road beds; Streetcar and railroad construction 
  track laborer; Temporary air and water lines, Victaulic or 
  similar; Tool room attendant (jobsite only) 
 
  GROUP 4: Final clean-up work of debris, grounds and building 
  including but not limited to: street cleaner; cleaning and 
  washing windows; brick cleaner (jobsite only); material 
  cleaner (jobsite only).  The classification ""material 
  cleaner"" is to be utilized under the following conditions: 
A: at demolition site for the salvage of the material.      
  B: at the conclusion of a job where the material is to be 
  salvaged and stocked to be reused on another job. 
  C: for the cleaning of salvage material at the jobsite or 
  temporary jobsite yard. 
 
  The material cleaner classification should not be  used in 
  the performance of ""form stripping, cleaning  and oiling 
  and moving to the next point of erection"". 
 
-------------------------------------------------------- 
 
GUNITE LABORER CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
GROUP 1: Structural Nozzleman  
 
365 of 574

--- page 366 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
50/70
GROUP 2: Nozzleman, Gunman, Potman, Groundman  
 
GROUP 3: Reboundman  
 
GROUP 4: Gunite laborer               
 
---------------------------------------------------------- 
 
WRECKING WORK LABORER CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
  GROUP 1: Skilled wrecker (removing and salvaging of sash, 
  windows and materials) 
 
  GROUP 2: Semi-skilled wrecker (salvaging of other building 
  materials) 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0304-005 05/01/2018 
 
ALAMEDA COUNTY 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Brick Tender.....................$ 35.37            20.70 
 
  FOOTNOTES: Work on jobs where heat-protective clothing is 
  required: $2.00 per hour additional. Work at grinders: $.25 
  per hour additional. Manhole work: $2.00 per day additional. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0304-008 07/01/2017 
 
ALAMEDA AND CONTRA COSTA COUNTIES: 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Plasterer tender.................$ 34.70            23.11 
 
Work on a swing stage scaffold: $1.00 per hour additional. 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0324-002 06/25/2018 
 
CONTRA COSTA COUNTY 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
LABORER (TRAFFIC CONTROL/LANE    
CLOSURE)   
     Escort Driver, Flag Person..$ 30.54            23.65 
     Traffic Control Person I....$ 30.84            23.65 
     Traffic Control Person II...$ 28.34            23.65 
 
  TRAFFIC CONTROL PERSON I: Layout of traffic control, crash 
  cushions, construction area and roadside signage. 
 
  TRAFFIC CONTROL PERSON II: Installation and removal of 
  temporary/permanent signs, markers, delineators and crash 
  cushions. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0324-006 06/25/2018 
 
CONTRA COSTA COUNTY 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
366 of 574

--- page 367 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
51/70
 
Tunnel and Shaft Laborers:   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 37.82            24.11 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 37.59            24.11 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 37.34            24.11 
     GROUP 4.....................$ 36.89            24.11 
     GROUP 5.....................$ 36.35            24.11 
     Shotcrete Specialist........$ 38.34            24.11 
 
TUNNEL AND SHAFT CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
  GROUP 1: Diamond driller; Groundmen; Gunite and shotcrete 
  nozzlemen 
 
  GROUP 2: Rodmen; Shaft work & raise (below actual or 
  excavated ground level) 
 
  GROUP 3: Bit grinder; Blaster, driller, powdermen, heading; 
  Cherry pickermen - where car is lifted; Concrete finisher 
  in tunnel; Concrete screedman; Grout pumpman and potman; 
  Gunite & shotcrete gunman & potman; Headermen; High 
  pressure nozzleman; Miner - tunnel, including top and 
  bottom man on shaft and raise work; Nipper; Nozzleman on 
  slick line; Sandblaster - potman, Robotic Shotcrete Placer, 
  Segment Erector, Tunnel Muck Hauler, Steel Form raiser and 
  setter; Timberman, retimberman (wood or steel or substitute 
  materials therefore); Tugger (for tunnel laborer work); 
  Cable tender; Chuck tender; Powderman - primer house 
 
  GROUP 4: Vibrator operator, pavement breaker; Bull gang - 
  muckers, trackmen; Concrete crew - includes rodding and 
  spreading, Dumpmen (any method) 
 
  GROUP 5: Grout crew; Reboundman; Swamper/ Brakeman 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0324-012 06/25/2018 
 
CONTRA COSTA COUNTY 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
LABORER (CONSTRUCTION CRAFT    
LABORERS - AREA A:)   
     Construction Specialist  
     Group.......................$ 31.49            23.20 
     GROUP 1.....................$ 30.79            23.20 
     GROUP 1-a...................$ 31.01            23.20 
     GROUP 1-c...................$ 30.84            23.20 
     GROUP 1-e...................$ 31.34            23.20 
     GROUP 1-f...................$ 30.37            23.20 
     GROUP 1-g...................$ 30.99            23.20 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 30.64            23.20 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 30.54            23.20 
     GROUP 4.....................$ 24.23            23.20 
  See groups 1-b and 1-d under laborer classifications. 
LABORER (GARDENERS,    
HORTICULURAL & LANDSCAPE    
LABORERS - AREA A:)   
     (1) New Construction........$ 30.54            23.20 
     (2) Establishment Warranty  
     Period......................$ 24.23            23.20 
LABORER (GUNITE - AREA A:)   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 30.75            22.31 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 30.25            22.31 
367 of 574

--- page 368 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
52/70
     GROUP 3.....................$ 29.66            22.31 
     GROUP 4.....................$ 29.54            22.31 
LABORER (WRECKING - AREA A:)   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 30.79            23.20 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 30.64            23.20 
 
FOOTNOTES: 
  Laborers working off or with or from bos'n chairs, swinging 
  scaffolds, belts shall receive $0.25 per hour above the 
  applicable wage rate.  This shall not apply to workers 
  entitled to receive the wage rate set forth in Group 1-a 
  below. 
 
  --------------------------------------------------------- 
   
 
LABORER CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
  CONSTRUCTION SPECIALIST GROUP: Asphalt ironer and raker; 
  Chainsaw; Laser beam in connection with laborers' work; 
  Cast-in- place manhole form setter; Pressure pipelayer; 
  Davis trencher - 300 or similar type (and all small 
  trenchers); Blaster; Diamond driller; Multiple unit drill; 
  Hydraulic drill 
 
  GROUP 1: Asphalt spreader boxes (all types); Barko, Wacker 
  and similar type tampers; Buggymobile; Caulker, bander, 
  pipewrapper, conduit layer, plastic pipelayer; Certified 
  hazardous waste worker including Leade Abatement; 
  Compactors of all types; Concrete and magnesite mixer, 1/2 
  yd. and under; Concrete pan work; Concrete sander; Concrete 
  saw; Cribber and/or shoring; Cut granite curb setter; 
  Dri-pak-it machine; Faller, logloader and bucker; Form 
  raiser, slip forms; Green cutter; Headerboard, Hubsetter, 
  aligner, by any method; High pressure blow pipe (1-1/2"" or 
  over, 100 lbs. pressure/over); Hydro seeder and similar 
  type; Jackhammer operator; Jacking of pipe over 12 inches; 
  Jackson and similar type compactor; Kettle tender, pot and 
  worker applying asphalt, lay-kold, creosote, lime, caustic 
  and similar type materials (applying means applying, 
  dipping or handling of such materials); Lagging, sheeting, 
  whaling, bracing, trenchjacking, lagging hammer; Magnesite, 
  epoxyresin, fiberglass, mastic worker (wet or dry); No 
  joint pipe and stripping of same, including repair of 
  voids; Pavement breaker and spader, including tool grinder; 
  Perma curb; Pipelayer (including grade checking in 
  connection with pipelaying); Precast-manhole setter; 
  Pressure pipe tester; Post hole digger, air, gas and 
  electric; Power broom sweeper; Power tampers of all types 
  (except as shown in Group 2); Ram set gun and stud gun; 
  Riprap stonepaver and rock-slinger, including placing of 
  sacked concrete and/or sand (wet or dry) and gabions and 
  similar type; Rotary scarifier or multiple head concrete 
  chipping scarifier; Roto and Ditch Witch; Rototiller; 
  Sandblaster, pot, gun, nozzle operators; Signalling and 
  rigging; Tank cleaner; Tree climber; Turbo blaster; 
  Vibrascreed, bull float in connection with laborers' work; 
  Vibrator; Hazardous waste worker (lead removal); Asbestos 
  and mold removal worker 
 
  GROUP 1-a: Joy drill model TWM-2A; Gardner-Denver model DH143 
  and similar type drills; Track driller; Jack leg driller; 
  Wagon driller; Mechanical drillers, all types regardless of 
  type or method of power; Mechanical pipe layers, all types 
  regardless of type or method of power; Blaster and powder; 
368 of 574

--- page 369 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
53/70
  All work of loading, placing and blasting of all powder and 
  explosives of whatever type regardless of method used for 
  such loading and placing; High scalers (including drilling 
  of same); Tree topper; Bit grinder 
 
  GROUP 1-b: Sewer cleaners shall receive $4.00 per day above 
  Group 1 wage rates.  ""Sewer cleaner"" means any worker who 
  handles or comes in contact with raw sewage in small 
  diameter sewers.  Those who work inside recently active, 
  large diameter sewers, and all recently active sewer 
  manholes shal receive $5.00 per day above Group 1 wage 
  rates. 
 
  GROUP 1-c: Burning and welding in connection with laborers' 
  work; Synthetic thermoplastics and similar type welding 
 
  GROUP 1-d: Maintenance and repair track and road beds.  All 
  employees performing work covered herein shall receive $ 
  .25 per hour above their regular rate for all work 
  performed on underground structures not specifically 
  covered herein.  This paragraph shall not be construed to 
  apply to work below ground level in open cut.  It shall 
  apply to cut and cover work of subway construction after 
  the temporary cover has been placed. 
 
  GROUP 1-e: Work on and/or in bell hole footings and shafts 
  thereof, and work on and in deep footings.  (A deep footing 
  is a hole 15 feet or more in depth.)  In the event the 
  depth of the footing is unknown at the commencement of 
  excavation, and the final depth exceeds 15 feet, the deep 
  footing wage rate would apply to all employees for each and 
  every day worked on or in the excavation of the footing 
  from the date of inception. 
 
  GROUP 1-f: Wire winding machine in connection with guniting 
  or shot crete 
 
  GROUP 1-g, CONTRA COSTA COUNTY: Pipelayer (including grade 
  checking in connection with pipelaying); Caulker; Bander; 
  Pipewrapper; Conduit layer; Plastic pipe layer; Pressure 
  pipe tester; No joint pipe and stripping of same, including 
  repair of voids; Precast manhole setters, cast in place 
  manhole form setters 
 
  GROUP 2: Asphalt shoveler; Cement dumper and handling dry 
  cement or gypsum; Choke-setter and rigger (clearing work); 
  Concrete bucket dumper and chute; Concrete chipping and 
  grinding; Concrete laborer (wet or dry); Driller tender, 
  chuck tender, nipper; Guinea chaser (stake), grout crew; 
  High pressure nozzle, adductor; Hydraulic monitor (over 100 
  lbs. pressure); Loading and unloading, carrying and hauling 
  of all rods and materials for use in reinforcing concrete 
  construction; Pittsburgh chipper and similar type brush 
  shredders; Sloper; Single foot, hand-held, pneumatic 
  tamper; All pneumatic, air, gas and electric tools not 
  listed in Groups 1 through 1-f; Jacking of pipe - under 12 
  inches 
 
  GROUP 3: Construction laborers, including bridge and general 
  laborer; Dump, load spotter; Flag person; Fire watcher; 
  Fence erector; Guardrail erector; Gardener, horticultural 
  and landscape laborer; Jetting; Limber, brush loader and 
  piler; Pavement marker (button setter); Maintenance, repair 
  track and road beds; Streetcar and railroad construction 
  track laborer; Temporary air and water lines, Victaulic or 
369 of 574

--- page 370 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
54/70
  similar; Tool room attendant (jobsite only) 
 
  GROUP 4: Final clean-up work of debris, grounds and building 
  including but not limited to: street cleaner; cleaning and 
  washing windows; brick cleaner (jobsite only); material 
  cleaner (jobsite only).  The classification ""material 
  cleaner"" is to be utilized under the following conditions: 
A: at demolition site for the salvage of the material.      
  B: at the conclusion of a job where the material is to be 
  salvaged and stocked to be reused on another job. 
  C: for the cleaning of salvage material at the jobsite or 
  temporary jobsite yard. 
 
  The material cleaner classification should not be  used in 
  the performance of ""form stripping, cleaning  and oiling 
  and moving to the next point of erection"". 
 
-------------------------------------------------------- 
 
GUNITE LABORER CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
GROUP 1: Structural Nozzleman  
 
GROUP 2: Nozzleman, Gunman, Potman, Groundman  
 
GROUP 3: Reboundman  
 
GROUP 4: Gunite laborer               
 
---------------------------------------------------------- 
 
WRECKING WORK LABORER CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
  GROUP 1: Skilled wrecker (removing and salvaging of sash, 
  windows and materials) 
 
  GROUP 2: Semi-skilled wrecker (salvaging of other building 
  materials) 
 
GROUP 1-g, CONTRA COSTA COUNTY: Pipelayer (including grade 
  checking in connection with pipelaying); Caulker; Bander; 
  Pipewrapper; Conduit layer; Plastic pipe layer; Pressure 
  pipe tester; No joint pipe and stripping of same, including 
  repair of voids; Precast manhole setters, cast in place 
  manhole form setters 
 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0324-014 05/01/2018 
 
CONTRA COSTA COUNTY: 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Brick Tender.....................$ 35.37            20.70 
 
  FOOTNOTES: Work on jobs where heat-protective clothing is 
  required: $2.00 per hour additional. Work at grinders: $.25 
  per hour additional. Manhole work: $2.00 per day additional. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO0324-018 07/01/2018 
 
ALAMEDA AND CONTRA COSTA COUNTIES: 
 
370 of 574

--- page 371 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
55/70
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Plasterer tender.................$ 37.14            22.32 
 
Work on a swing stage scaffold: $1.00 per hour additional. 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO1130-002 06/25/2018 
 
MARIPOSA, MERCED, STANISLAUS, AND TUOLUMNE COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
LABORER (TRAFFIC CONTROL/LANE    
CLOSURE)   
     Escort Driver, Flag Person..$ 29.54            23.65 
     Traffic Control Person I....$ 29.84            23.65 
     Traffic Control Person II...$ 27.34            23.65 
 
  TRAFFIC CONTROL PERSON I: Layout of traffic control, crash 
  cushions, construction area and roadside signage. 
 
  TRAFFIC CONTROL PERSON II: Installation and removal of 
  temporary/permanent signs, markers, delineators and crash 
  cushions. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO1130-003 06/26/2017 
 
MARIPOSA, MERCED, STANISLAUS, AND TUOLUMNE COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Tunnel and Shaft Laborers:   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 36.60            24.83 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 36.37            24.83 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 36.12            24.83 
     GROUP 4.....................$ 35.67            24.83 
     GROUP 5.....................$ 35.13            24.83 
     Shotcrete Specialist........$ 37.12            24.83 
 
TUNNEL AND SHAFT CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
  GROUP 1: Diamond driller; Groundmen; Gunite and shotcrete 
  nozzlemen 
 
  GROUP 2: Rodmen; Shaft work & raise (below actual or 
  excavated ground level) 
 
  GROUP 3: Bit grinder; Blaster, driller, powdermen, heading; 
  Cherry pickermen - where car is lifted; Concrete finisher 
  in tunnel; Concrete screedman; Grout pumpman and potman; 
  Gunite & shotcrete gunman & potman; Headermen; High 
  pressure nozzleman; Miner - tunnel, including top and 
  bottom man on shaft and raise work; Nipper; Nozzleman on 
  slick line; Sandblaster - potman, Robotic Shotcrete Placer, 
  Segment Erector, Tunnel Muck Hauler, Steel Form raiser and 
  setter; Timberman, retimberman (wood or steel or substitute 
  materials therefore); Tugger (for tunnel laborer work); 
  Cable tender; Chuck tender; Powderman - primer house 
 
  GROUP 4: Vibrator operator, pavement breaker; Bull gang - 
  muckers, trackmen; Concrete crew - includes rodding and 
  spreading, Dumpmen (any method) 
 
  GROUP 5: Grout crew; Reboundman; Swamper/ Brakeman 
371 of 574

--- page 372 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
56/70
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO1130-005 07/01/2018 
 
MARIPOSA, MERCED, STANISLAUS AND TUOLUMNE COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
LABORER   
     Mason Tender-Brick..........$ 31.20            22.20 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO1130-007 06/25/2018 
 
MARIPOSA, MERCED, STANISLAUS, AND TUOLUMNE , COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
LABORER (CONSTRUCTION CRAFT    
LABORERS - AREA B:)   
     Construction Specialist  
     Group.......................$ 30.49            23.20 
     GROUP 1.....................$ 29.79            23.20 
     GROUP 1-a...................$ 30.01            23.20 
     GROUP 1-c...................$ 29.84            23.20 
     GROUP 1-e...................$ 30.34            23.20 
     GROUP 1-f...................$ 29.37            23.20 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 29.64            23.20 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 29.54            23.20 
     GROUP 4.....................$ 23.23            23.20 
  See groups 1-b and 1-d under laborer classifications. 
LABORER (GARDENERS,    
HORTICULTURAL & LANDSCAPE    
LABORERS - AREA B:)   
     (1) New Construction........$ 29.54            23.20 
     (2) Establishment Warranty  
     Period......................$ 23.23            23.20 
LABORER (GUNITE - AREA B:)   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 29.75            22.31 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 29.25            22.31 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 28.66            22.31 
     GROUP 4.....................$ 28.54            22.31 
LABORER (WRECKING - AREA B:)   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 29.79            23.20 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 29.64            23.20 
 
FOOTNOTES: 
  Laborers working off or with or from bos'n chairs, swinging 
  scaffolds, belts shall receive $0.25 per hour above the 
  applicable wage rate.  This shall not apply to workers 
  entitled to receive the wage rate set forth in Group 1-a 
  below. 
 
  --------------------------------------------------------- 
   
 
LABORER CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
  CONSTRUCTION SPECIALIST GROUP: Asphalt ironer and raker; 
  Chainsaw; Laser beam in connection with laborers' work; 
  Cast-in- place manhole form setter; Pressure pipelayer; 
  Davis trencher - 300 or similar type (and all small 
  trenchers); Blaster; Diamond driller; Multiple unit drill; 
  Hydraulic drill 
 
  GROUP 1: Asphalt spreader boxes (all types); Barko, Wacker 
372 of 574

--- page 373 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
57/70
  and similar type tampers; Buggymobile; Caulker, bander, 
  pipewrapper, conduit layer, plastic pipelayer; Certified 
  hazardous waste worker including Leade Abatement; 
  Compactors of all types; Concrete and magnesite mixer, 1/2 
  yd. and under; Concrete pan work; Concrete sander; Concrete 
  saw; Cribber and/or shoring; Cut granite curb setter; 
  Dri-pak-it machine; Faller, logloader and bucker; Form 
  raiser, slip forms; Green cutter; Headerboard, Hubsetter, 
  aligner, by any method; High pressure blow pipe (1-1/2"" or 
  over, 100 lbs. pressure/over); Hydro seeder and similar 
  type; Jackhammer operator; Jacking of pipe over 12 inches; 
  Jackson and similar type compactor; Kettle tender, pot and 
  worker applying asphalt, lay-kold, creosote, lime, caustic 
  and similar type materials (applying means applying, 
  dipping or handling of such materials); Lagging, sheeting, 
  whaling, bracing, trenchjacking, lagging hammer; Magnesite, 
  epoxyresin, fiberglass, mastic worker (wet or dry); No 
  joint pipe and stripping of same, including repair of 
  voids; Pavement breaker and spader, including tool grinder; 
  Perma curb; Pipelayer (including grade checking in 
  connection with pipelaying); Precast-manhole setter; 
  Pressure pipe tester; Post hole digger, air, gas and 
  electric; Power broom sweeper; Power tampers of all types 
  (except as shown in Group 2); Ram set gun and stud gun; 
  Riprap stonepaver and rock-slinger, including placing of 
  sacked concrete and/or sand (wet or dry) and gabions and 
  similar type; Rotary scarifier or multiple head concrete 
  chipping scarifier; Roto and Ditch Witch; Rototiller; 
  Sandblaster, pot, gun, nozzle operators; Signalling and 
  rigging; Tank cleaner; Tree climber; Turbo blaster; 
  Vibrascreed, bull float in connection with laborers' work; 
  Vibrator; Hazardous waste worker (lead removal); Asbestos 
  and mold removal worker 
 
  GROUP 1-a: Joy drill model TWM-2A; Gardner-Denver model DH143 
  and similar type drills; Track driller; Jack leg driller; 
  Wagon driller; Mechanical drillers, all types regardless of 
  type or method of power; Mechanical pipe layers, all types 
  regardless of type or method of power; Blaster and powder; 
  All work of loading, placing and blasting of all powder and 
  explosives of whatever type regardless of method used for 
  such loading and placing; High scalers (including drilling 
  of same); Tree topper; Bit grinder 
 
  GROUP 1-b: Sewer cleaners shall receive $4.00 per day above 
  Group 1 wage rates.  ""Sewer cleaner"" means any worker who 
  handles or comes in contact with raw sewage in small 
  diameter sewers.  Those who work inside recently active, 
  large diameter sewers, and all recently active sewer 
  manholes shal receive $5.00 per day above Group 1 wage 
  rates. 
 
  GROUP 1-c: Burning and welding in connection with laborers' 
  work; Synthetic thermoplastics and similar type welding 
 
  GROUP 1-d: Maintenance and repair track and road beds.  All 
  employees performing work covered herein shall receive $ 
  .25 per hour above their regular rate for all work 
  performed on underground structures not specifically 
  covered herein.  This paragraph shall not be construed to 
  apply to work below ground level in open cut.  It shall 
  apply to cut and cover work of subway construction after 
  the temporary cover has been placed. 
 
  GROUP 1-e: Work on and/or in bell hole footings and shafts 
373 of 574

--- page 374 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
58/70
  thereof, and work on and in deep footings.  (A deep footing 
  is a hole 15 feet or more in depth.)  In the event the 
  depth of the footing is unknown at the commencement of 
  excavation, and the final depth exceeds 15 feet, the deep 
  footing wage rate would apply to all employees for each and 
  every day worked on or in the excavation of the footing 
  from the date of inception. 
 
  GROUP 1-f: Wire winding machine in connection with guniting 
  or shot crete 
 
  GROUP 2: Asphalt shoveler; Cement dumper and handling dry 
  cement or gypsum; Choke-setter and rigger (clearing work); 
  Concrete bucket dumper and chute; Concrete chipping and 
  grinding; Concrete laborer (wet or dry); Driller tender, 
  chuck tender, nipper; Guinea chaser (stake), grout crew; 
  High pressure nozzle, adductor; Hydraulic monitor (over 100 
  lbs. pressure); Loading and unloading, carrying and hauling 
  of all rods and materials for use in reinforcing concrete 
  construction; Pittsburgh chipper and similar type brush 
  shredders; Sloper; Single foot, hand-held, pneumatic 
  tamper; All pneumatic, air, gas and electric tools not 
  listed in Groups 1 through 1-f; Jacking of pipe - under 12 
  inches 
 
  GROUP 3: Construction laborers, including bridge and general 
  laborer; Dump, load spotter; Flag person; Fire watcher; 
  Fence erector; Guardrail erector; Gardener, horticultural 
  and landscape laborer; Jetting; Limber, brush loader and 
  piler; Pavement marker (button setter); Maintenance, repair 
  track and road beds; Streetcar and railroad construction 
  track laborer; Temporary air and water lines, Victaulic or 
  similar; Tool room attendant (jobsite only) 
 
  GROUP 4: Final clean-up work of debris, grounds and building 
  including but not limited to: street cleaner; cleaning and 
  washing windows; brick cleaner (jobsite only); material 
  cleaner (jobsite only).  The classification ""material 
  cleaner"" is to be utilized under the following conditions: 
A: at demolition site for the salvage of the material.      
  B: at the conclusion of a job where the material is to be 
  salvaged and stocked to be reused on another job. 
  C: for the cleaning of salvage material at the jobsite or 
  temporary jobsite yard. 
 
  The material cleaner classification should not be  used in 
  the performance of ""form stripping, cleaning  and oiling 
  and moving to the next point of erection"". 
 
-------------------------------------------------------- 
 
GUNITE LABORER CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
GROUP 1: Structural Nozzleman  
 
GROUP 2: Nozzleman, Gunman, Potman, Groundman  
 
GROUP 3: Reboundman  
 
GROUP 4: Gunite laborer               
 
---------------------------------------------------------- 
 
WRECKING WORK LABORER CLASSIFICATIONS  
 
374 of 574

--- page 375 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
59/70
  GROUP 1: Skilled wrecker (removing and salvaging of sash, 
  windows and materials) 
 
  GROUP 2: Semi-skilled wrecker (salvaging of other building 
  materials) 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO1130-008 07/01/2018 
 
CALAVERAS, FRESNO, KINGS, MADERA, MARIPOSA, MERCED, SAN 
JOAQUIN, STANISLAUS & TUOLUMNE 
 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Plasterer tender.................$ 32.02            23.00 
 
Work on a swing stage scaffold: $1.00 per hour additional. 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 LABO1130-009 07/01/2018 
 
MARIPOSA, MERCED, STANISLAUS, AND TUOLUMNE COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
LABORER (Plaster Tender).........$ 32.02            23.00 
 
Work on a swing stage scaffold: $1.00 per hour additional. 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PAIN0016-001 01/01/2019 
 
ALAMEDA, CONTRA COSTA, MONTEREY, SAN BENITO, SAN MATEO, SANTA 
CLARA, AND SANTA CRUZ COUNTIES 
 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Painters:........................$ 42.67            24.03 
 
PREMIUMS: 
 
EXOTIC MATERIALS - $0.75 additional per hour. 
SPRAY WORK: - $0.50 additional per hour. 
INDUSTRIAL PAINTING - $0.25 additional per hour 
  [Work on industrial buildings used for the manufacture and 
  processing of goods for sale or service; steel construction 
  (bridges), stacks, towers, tanks, and similar structures] 
 
HIGH WORK: 
over 50 feet - $2.00 per hour additional 
100 to 180 feet - $4.00 per hour additional 
Over 180 feet - $6.00 per houir additional 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PAIN0016-003 01/01/2020 
 
AREA 1: ALAMEDA, CONTRA COSTA, SAN FRANCISCO, SAN MATEO & SANTA 
CLARA COUNTIES 
 
AREA 2: CALAVERAS, MARIPOA, MERCED, MONTEREY, SAN BENITO, SAN 
JOAQUIN, SANTA CRUZ, STANISLAUS & TUOLUMNE COUNTIES 
 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
375 of 574

--- page 376 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
60/70
Drywall Finisher/Taper   
     AREA 1......................$ 51.51            27.39 
     AREA 2......................$ 47.38            25.99 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PAIN0016-012 01/01/2019 
 
ALAMEDA, CONTRA COSTA, MARIPOSA, MERCED, MONTEREY, SAN BENITO, 
SAN FRANCISCO, SAN MATEO, SANTA CLARA AND SANTA CRUZ COUNTIES 
 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
SOFT FLOOR LAYER.................$ 48.60            27.43 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PAIN0016-015 01/01/2019 
 
CALAVERAS, MARIPOSA, MERCED, SAN JOAQUIN, STANISLAUS & TUOLUMNE 
COUNTIES 
 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
PAINTER   
     Brush.......................$ 33.68            20.24 
 
FOOTNOTES:  
SPRAY/SANDBLAST: $0.50 additional per hour. 
EXOTIC MATERIALS: $1.00 additional per hour. 
  HIGH TIME:  Over 50 ft above ground or water level $2.00 
  additional per hour.  100 to 180 ft above ground or water 
  level $4.00 additional per hour.  Over 180 ft above ground 
  or water level $6.00 additional per hour. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PAIN0016-022 01/01/2019 
 
SAN FRANCISCO COUNTY 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
PAINTER..........................$ 46.29            24.03 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PAIN0169-001 01/01/2020 
 
FRESNO, KINGS, MADERA, MARIPOSA AND MERCED COUNTIES: 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
GLAZIER..........................$ 40.00            26.76 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PAIN0169-005 07/01/2019 
 
ALAMEDA CONTRA COSTA, MONTEREY, SAN BENITO, SAN FRANCISCO, SAN 
MATEO, SANTA CLARA & SANTA CRUZ COUNTIES 
 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
GLAZIER..........................$ 50.62            29.10 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PAIN0294-004 01/01/2020 
 
FRESNO, KINGS AND MADERA COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
376 of 574

--- page 377 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
61/70
 
PAINTER   
     Brush, Roller...............$ 31.68            19.71 
     Drywall Finisher/Taper......$ 40.10            25.00 
 
FOOTNOTE:  
  Spray Painters & Paperhangers recive $1.00 additional per 
  hour. Painters doing Drywall Patching receive $1.25 
  additional per hour.  Lead Abaters & Sandblasters receive 
  $1.50 additional per hour.  High Time - over 30 feet (does 
  not include work from a lift) $0.75 per hour additional. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PAIN0294-005 01/01/2020 
 
FRESNO, KINGS & MADERA 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
SOFT FLOOR LAYER.................$ 33.30            21.42 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PAIN0767-001 07/01/2019 
 
CALAVERAS, SAN JOAQUIN, STANISLAUS AND TUOLUMNE COUNTIES: 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
GLAZIER..........................$ 39.06            29.31 
 
  PAID HOLIDAYS: New Year's Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, 
  President's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, 
  Veteran's Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day. 
 
  Employee rquired to wear a body harness shall receive $1.50 
  per hour above the basic hourly rate at any elevation. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PAIN1176-001 07/01/2019 
 
HIGHWAY IMPR0VEMENT 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Parking Lot Striping/Highway    
Marking:   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 37.68            15.38 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 32.03            15.38 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 32.40            15.38 
 
CLASSIFICATIONS   
 
  GROUP 1: Striper: Layout and application of painted traffic 
  stripes and marking; hot thermo plastic; tape, traffic 
  stripes and markings 
 
  GROUP 2: Gamecourt & Playground Installer 
 
  GROUP 3: Protective Coating, Pavement Sealing 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PAIN1237-003 01/01/2020 
 
CALAVERAS; SAN JOAQUIN COUNTIES; STANISLAUS AND TUOLUMNE 
COUNTIES: 
 
377 of 574

--- page 378 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
62/70
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
SOFT FLOOR LAYER.................$ 39.61            22.59 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PLAS0066-002 07/01/2019 
 
ALAMEDA, CONTRA COSTA, SAN MATEO AND SAN FRANCISCO COUNTIES: 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
PLASTERER........................$ 42.41            30.73 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PLAS0300-001 07/01/2018 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
PLASTERER   
     AREA 188:  Fresno...........$ 32.70            31.68 
     AREA 224:  San Benito,  
     Santa Clara, Santa Cruz.....$ 32.88            31.68 
     AREA 295:  Calaveras & San  
     Joaquin Couonties...........$ 32.70            31.68 
     AREA 337:  Monterey County..$ 32.88            31.68 
     AREA 429:  Mariposa,  
     Merced, Stanislaus,  
     Tuolumne Counties...........$ 32.70            31.68 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PLAS0300-005 07/01/2017 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
CEMENT MASON/CONCRETE FINISHER...$ 33.49            23.67 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PLUM0038-001 07/01/2019 
 
SAN FRANCISCO COUNTY 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
PLUMBER (Plumber,    
Steamfitter, Refrigeration    
Fitter)..........................$ 74.16            43.59 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PLUM0038-005 07/01/2019 
 
SAN FRANCISCO COUNTY 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Landscape/Irrigation Fitter    
(Underground/Utility Fitter).....$ 63.04            31.48 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PLUM0062-001 01/01/2020 
 
MONTEREY AND SANTA CRUZ COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
PLUMBER & STEAMFITTER............$ 44.30            35.19 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PLUM0159-001 07/01/2019 
 
CONTRA COSTA COUNTY 
 
378 of 574

--- page 379 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
63/70
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Plumber and steamfitter   
     (1) Refrigeration...........$ 56.93            41.04 
     (2) All other work..........$ 57.82            41.04 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PLUM0246-001 01/01/2020 
 
FRESNO, KINGS & MADERA COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
PLUMBER & STEAMFITTER............$ 41.90            33.89 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PLUM0246-004 01/01/2017 
 
FRESNO, MERCED & SAN JOAQUIN COUNIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
PLUMBER (PIPE TRADESMAN).........$ 13.00            10.74 
 
PIPE TRADESMAN SCOPE OF WORK: 
  Installation of corrugated metal piping for drainage, as well 
  as installation of corrugated metal piping for culverts in 
  connection with storm sewers and drains; Grouting, dry 
  packing and diapering of joints, holes or chases including 
  paving over joints, in piping; Temporary piping for dirt 
  work for building site preparation; Operating jack hammers, 
  pavement breakers, chipping guns, concrete saws and spades 
  to cut holes, chases and channels for piping systems; 
  Digging, grading, backfilling and ground preparation for 
  all types of pipe to all points of the jobsite; Ground 
  preparation including ground leveling, layout and planting 
  of shrubbery, trees and ground cover, including watering, 
  mowing, edging, pruning and fertilizing, the breaking of 
  concrete, digging, backfilling and tamping for the 
  preparation and completion of all work in connection with 
  lawn sprinkler and landscaping; Loading, unloading and 
  distributing materials at jobsite; Putting away materials 
  in storage bins in jobsite secure storage area; Demolition 
  of piping and fixtures for remodeling and additions; 
  Setting up and tearing down work benches, ladders and job 
  shacks; Clean-up and sweeping of jobsite; Pipe wrapping and 
  waterproofing where tar or similar material is applied for 
  protection of buried piping; Flagman 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PLUM0342-001 07/01/2018 
 
ALAMEDA & CONTRA COSTA  COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
PIPEFITTER   
     CONTRA COSTA COUNTY.........$ 58.68            42.40 
PLUMBER, PIPEFITTER,    
STEAMFITTER   
     ALAMEDA COUNTY..............$ 58.68            42.40 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PLUM0355-004 07/01/2019 
 
ALAMEDA, CALAVERAS, CONTRA COSTA, FRESNO, KINGS, MADERA, 
MARIPOSA, MERCED, MONTEREY, SAN BENITO, SAN JOAQUIN, SAN MATEO, 
SANTA CLARA, SANTA CRUZ, STANISLAUS, AND TUOLUMNE COUNTIES: 
379 of 574

--- page 380 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
64/70
 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Underground Utility Worker   
     /Landscape Fitter...........$ 29.00            15.80 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PLUM0393-001 07/01/2019 
 
SAN BENITO AND SANTA CLARA COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
PLUMBER/PIPEFITTER...............$ 63.91            42.68 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PLUM0442-001 01/01/2020 
 
CALAVERAS, MARIPOSA, MERCED, SAN JOAQUIN, STANISLAUS & TUOLUMNE 
COUNTIES 
 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
PLUMBER & STEAMFITTER............$ 44.50            31.39 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 PLUM0467-001 07/01/2019 
 
SAN MATEO COUNTY 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Plumber/Pipefitter/Steamfitter...$ 67.61            36.50 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ROOF0027-002 01/01/2020 
 
FRESNO, KINGS, AND MADERA COUNTIES 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
ROOFER...........................$ 31.11            14.41 
 
  FOOTNOTE: Work with pitch, pitch base of pitch impregnated 
  products or any material containing coal tar pitch, on any 
  building old or new, where both asphalt and pitchers are 
  used in the application of a built-up roof or tear off: 
  $2.00 per hour additional. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ROOF0040-002 08/01/2019 
 
SAN FRANCISCO & SAN MATEO COUNTIES: 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
ROOFER...........................$ 41.88            19.44 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ROOF0081-001 08/01/2019 
 
ALAMEDA AND CONTRA COSTA COUNTIES: 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Roofer...........................$ 40.10            18.88 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ROOF0081-004 08/01/2019 
380 of 574

--- page 381 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
65/70
 
CALAVERAS, MARIPOSA, MERCED, SAN JOAQUIN, STANISLAUS AND 
TUOLUMNE COUNTIES: 
 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
ROOFER...........................$ 38.28            18.56 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ROOF0095-002 08/01/2019 
 
MONTEREY, SAN BENITO, SANTA CLARA, AND SANTA CRUZ COUNTIES: 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
ROOFER   
     Journeyman..................$ 44.49            19.49 
     Kettle person (2 kettles);  
     Bitumastic, Enameler, Coal  
     Tar, Pitch and Mastic  
     worker......................$ 46.49            19.49 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 SFCA0483-001 07/29/2019 
 
ALAMEDA, CONTRA COSTA, SAN FRANCISCO, SAN MATEO AND SANTA CLARA 
COUNTIES: 
 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
SPRINKLER FITTER (FIRE)..........$ 65.52            32.67 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
* SFCA0669-011 04/01/2020 
 
CALAVERAS, FRESNO, KINGS, MADERA, MARIPOSA, MERCED, MONTEREY, 
SAN BENITO, SAN JOAQUIN, SANTA CRUZ, STANISLAUS AND TUOLUMNE 
COUNTIES: 
 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
SPRINKLER FITTER.................$ 38.95            25.63 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 SHEE0104-001 07/01/2019 
 
AREA 1: ALAMEDA, CONTRA COSTA, SAN FRANCISCO, SAN MATEO, SANTA 
CLARA 
 
AREA 2: MONTEREY & SAN BENITO 
 
AREA 3: SANTA CRUZ 
 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
SHEET METAL WORKER   
     AREA 1: 
      Mechanical Contracts  
      under $200,000.............$ 53.67            44.62 
      All Other Work.............$ 61.36            46.11 
     AREA 2......................$ 50.82            35.85 
     AREA 3......................$ 60.97            34.07 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 SHEE0104-003 07/01/2019 
 
381 of 574

--- page 382 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
66/70
CALAVERAS AND SAN JOAQUIN COUNTIES: 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
SHEET METAL WORKER...............$ 41.20            36.84 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 SHEE0104-005 07/01/2019 
 
MARIPOSA, MERCED, STANISLAUS AND TUOLUMNE COUNTIES: 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
SHEET METAL WORKER (Excluding    
metal deck and siding)...........$ 39.09            41.93 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 SHEE0104-007 07/01/2019 
 
FRESNO, KINGS, AND MADERA COUNTIES: 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
SHEET METAL WORKER...............$ 40.03            39.06 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 SHEE0104-015 07/01/2019 
 
ALAMEDA, CONTRA COSTA, MONTEREY, SAN BENITO, SAN FRANCISCO, SAN 
MATEO, SANTA CLARA AND SANTA CRUZ COUNTIES: 
 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
SHEET METAL WORKER (Metal    
Decking and Siding only).........$ 42.33            35.30 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 SHEE0104-018 07/01/2019 
 
CALAVERAS, FRESNO, KINGS, MADERA, MARIPOSA, MERCED, SAN 
JOAQUIN, STANISLAUS AND TUOLUMNE COUNTIES: 
 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Sheet metal worker (Metal    
decking and siding only).........$ 42.33            35.30 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 TEAM0094-001 07/01/2018 
 
                                  Rates          Fringes 
 
Truck drivers:   
     GROUP 1.....................$ 31.68            27.86 
     GROUP 2.....................$ 31.98            27.86 
     GROUP 3.....................$ 32.28            27.86 
     GROUP 4.....................$ 32.63            27.86 
     GROUP 5.....................$ 32.98            27.86 
 
FOOTNOTES:    
  Articulated dump truck; Bulk cement spreader (with or without 
  auger); Dumpcrete truck; Skid truck (debris box); Dry 
  pre-batch concrete mix trucks; Dumpster or similar type; 
  Slurry truck: Use dump truck yardage rate. 
  Heater planer; Asphalt burner; Scarifier burner; Industrial 
  lift truck (mechanical tailgate); Utility and clean-up 
  truck: Use appropriate rate for the power unit or the 
  equipment utilized. 
382 of 574

--- page 383 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
67/70
 
 
TRUCK DRIVER CLASSIFICATIONS   
 
  GROUP 1: Dump trucks, under 6 yds.; Single unit flat rack (2- 
  axle unit); Nipper truck (when flat rack truck is used 
  appropriate flat rack shall apply); Concrete pump truck 
  (when flat rack truck is used appropriate flat rack shall 
  apply); Concrete pump machine; Fork lift and lift jitneys; 
  Fuel and/or grease truck driver or fuel person; Snow buggy; 
  Steam cleaning; Bus or personhaul driver; Escort or pilot 
  car driver; Pickup truck; Teamster oiler/greaser and/or 
  serviceperson; Hook tender (including loading and 
  unloading); Team driver; Tool room attendant (refineries) 
 
  GROUP 2: Dump trucks, 6 yds. and under 8 yds.; Transit 
  mixers, through 10 yds.; Water trucks, under 7,000 gals.; 
  Jetting trucks, under 7,000 gals.; Single-unit flat rack 
  (3-axle unit); Highbed heavy duty transport; Scissor truck; 
  Rubber-tired muck car (not self-loaded); Rubber-tired truck 
  jumbo; Winch truck and ""A"" frame drivers; Combination winch 
  truck with hoist; Road oil truck or bootperson; 
  Buggymobile; Ross, Hyster and similar straddle carriers; 
  Small rubber-tired tractor 
 
  GROUP 3: Dump trucks, 8 yds. and including 24 yds.; Transit 
  mixers, over 10 yds.; Water trucks, 7,000 gals. and over; 
  Jetting trucks, 7,000 gals. and over; Vacuum trucks under 
  7500 gals. Trucks towing tilt bed or flat bed pull 
  trailers; Lowbed heavy duty transport; Heavy duty transport 
  tiller person; Self- propelled street sweeper with 
  self-contained refuse bin; Boom truck - hydro-lift or 
  Swedish type extension or retracting crane; P.B. or similar 
  type self-loading truck; Tire repairperson; Combination 
  bootperson and road oiler; Dry distribution truck (A 
  bootperson when employed on such equipment, shall receive 
  the rate specified for the classification of road oil 
  trucks or bootperson); Ammonia nitrate distributor, driver 
  and mixer; Snow Go and/or plow 
 
  GROUP 4: Dump trucks, over 25 yds. and under 65 yds.; Water 
  pulls - DW 10's, 20's, 21's and other similar equipment 
  when pulling Aqua/pak or water tank trailers; Helicopter 
  pilots (when transporting men and materials); Lowbedk Heavy 
  Duty Transport up to including 7 axles; DW10's, 20's, 21's 
  and other similar Cat type, Terra Cobra, LeTourneau Pulls, 
  Tournorocker, Euclid and similar type equipment when 
  pulling fuel and/or grease tank trailers or other 
  miscellaneous trailers; Vacuum Trucks 7500 gals and over 
  and truck repairman 
 
  GROUP 5: Dump trucks, 65 yds. and over; Holland hauler; Low 
  bed Heavy Duty Transport over 7 axles 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
WELDERS - Receive rate prescribed for craft performing 
operation to which welding is incidental. 
 
================================================================ 
  
Note: Executive Order (EO) 13706, Establishing Paid Sick Leave 
for Federal Contractors applies to all contracts subject to the 
Davis-Bacon Act for which the contract is awarded (and any 
solicitation was issued) on or after January 1, 2017.  If this 
383 of 574

--- page 384 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
68/70
contract is covered by the EO, the contractor must provide 
employees with 1 hour of paid sick leave for every 30 hours 
they work, up to 56 hours of paid sick leave each year. 
Employees must be permitted to use paid sick leave for their 
own illness, injury or other health-related needs, including 
preventive care; to assist a family member (or person who is 
like family to the employee) who is ill, injured, or has other 
health-related needs, including preventive care; or for reasons 
resulting from, or to assist a family member (or person who is 
like family to the employee) who is a victim of, domestic 
violence, sexual assault, or stalking.  Additional information 
on contractor requirements and worker protections under the EO 
is available at www.dol.gov/whd/govcontracts. 
 
Unlisted classifications needed for work not included within 
the scope of the classifications listed may be added after 
award only as provided in the labor standards contract clauses 
(29CFR 5.5 (a) (1) (ii)). 
 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
  
 
The body of each wage determination lists the classification 
and wage rates that have been found to be prevailing for the 
cited type(s) of construction in the area covered by the wage 
determination. The classifications are listed in alphabetical 
order of ""identifiers"" that indicate whether the particular 
rate is a union rate (current union negotiated rate for local), 
a survey rate (weighted average rate) or a union average rate 
(weighted union average rate). 
 
Union Rate Identifiers 
 
A four letter classification abbreviation identifier enclosed 
in dotted lines beginning with characters other than ""SU"" or 
""UAVG"" denotes that the union classification and rate were 
prevailing for that classification in the survey. Example: 
PLUM0198-005 07/01/2014. PLUM is an abbreviation identifier of 
the union which prevailed in the survey for this 
classification, which in this example would be Plumbers. 0198 
indicates the local union number or district council number 
where applicable, i.e., Plumbers Local 0198. The next number, 
005 in the example, is an internal number used in processing 
the wage determination. 07/01/2014 is the effective date of the 
most current negotiated rate, which in this example is July 1, 
2014. 
 
Union prevailing wage rates are updated to reflect all rate 
changes in the collective bargaining agreement (CBA) governing 
this classification and rate. 
 
Survey Rate Identifiers 
 
Classifications listed under the ""SU"" identifier indicate that 
no one rate prevailed for this classification in the survey and 
the published rate is derived by computing a weighted average 
rate based on all the rates reported in the survey for that 
classification.  As this weighted average rate includes all 
rates reported in the survey, it may include both union and 
non-union rates. Example: SULA2012-007 5/13/2014. SU indicates 
the rates are survey rates based on a weighted average 
calculation of rates and are not majority rates. LA indicates 
the State of Louisiana. 2012 is the year of survey on which 
these classifications and rates are based. The next number, 007 
384 of 574

--- page 385 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
69/70
in the example, is an internal number used in producing the 
wage determination. 5/13/2014 indicates the survey completion 
date for the classifications and rates under that identifier. 
 
Survey wage rates are not updated and remain in effect until a 
new survey is conducted. 
 
Union Average Rate Identifiers 
 
Classification(s) listed under the UAVG identifier indicate 
that no single majority rate prevailed for those 
classifications; however, 100% of the data reported for the 
classifications was union data. EXAMPLE: UAVG-OH-0010 
08/29/2014. UAVG indicates that the rate is a weighted union 
average rate. OH indicates the state. The next number, 0010 in 
the example, is an internal number used in producing the wage 
determination. 08/29/2014 indicates the survey completion date 
for the classifications and rates under that identifier. 
 
A UAVG rate will be updated once a year, usually in January of 
each year, to reflect a weighted average of the current 
negotiated/CBA rate of the union locals from which the rate is 
based. 
 
  
 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
                   WAGE DETERMINATION APPEALS PROCESS 
 
1.) Has there been an initial decision in the matter? This can 
be: 
 
*  an existing published wage determination 
*  a survey underlying a wage determination 
*  a Wage and Hour Division letter setting forth a position on 
   a wage determination matter 
*  a conformance (additional classification and rate) ruling 
 
On survey related matters, initial contact, including requests 
for summaries of surveys, should be with the Wage and Hour 
Regional Office for the area in which the survey was conducted 
because those Regional Offices have responsibility for the 
Davis-Bacon survey program. If the response from this initial 
contact is not satisfactory, then the process described in 2.) 
and 3.) should be followed. 
 
With regard to any other matter not yet ripe for the formal 
process described here, initial contact should be with the 
Branch of Construction Wage Determinations.  Write to: 
 
            Branch of Construction Wage Determinations 
            Wage and Hour Division 
            U.S. Department of Labor 
            200 Constitution Avenue, N.W. 
            Washington, DC 20210 
 
2.) If the answer to the question in 1.) is yes, then an 
interested party (those affected by the action) can request 
review and reconsideration from the Wage and Hour Administrator 
(See 29 CFR Part 1.8 and 29 CFR Part 7). Write to: 
 
            Wage and Hour Administrator 
            U.S. Department of Labor 
            200 Constitution Avenue, N.W. 
385 of 574

--- page 386 ---
4/22/2020
beta.SAM.gov
https://beta.sam.gov/wage-determination/CA20200018/7?index=wd&is_active=true&date_filter_index=0&date_rad_selection=date&wdType=dbra&c…
70/70
            Washington, DC 20210 
 
The request should be accompanied by a full statement of the 
interested party's position and by any information (wage 
payment data, project description, area practice material, 
etc.) that the requestor considers relevant to the issue. 
 
3.) If the decision of the Administrator is not favorable, an 
interested party may appeal directly to the Administrative 
Review Board (formerly the Wage Appeals Board).  Write to: 
 
            Administrative Review Board 
            U.S. Department of Labor 
            200 Constitution Avenue, N.W. 
            Washington, DC 20210 
 
4.) All decisions by the Administrative Review Board are final. 
 
================================================================ 
 
          END OF GENERAL DECISION" 
 
        
386 of 574

--- page 387 ---
Exhibit C: Supplement to Instructions to Bidders (WIFIA and SRF), Project Requirements, WIFIA 
and SRF Funding Requirements 
 
 
1. Insert referenced guidelines and EPA Forms 6100-2, 6100-3, 6100-4, 5700-52A under 
Exhibit C, Attachment 5, Supplement to Instructions to Bidders (WIFIA), USA EPA DBE 
Requirements. 
 
387 of 574

--- page 388 ---
EPA FORM 6100-2 (DBE Subcontractor Participation Form) 
 
 
OMB Control No: 2090-0030 
Approved: 8/13/2013 
Approval Expires: 8/31/2015 
 
Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program  
DBE Subcontractor Participation Form 
 
An EPA Financial Assistance Agreement Recipient must require its prime contractors to provide this form to its 
DBE subcontractors. This form gives a DBE1 subcontractor2 the opportunity to describe work received and/or 
report any concerns regarding the EPA-funded project (e.g., in areas such as termination by prime contractor, late 
payments, etc.).  The DBE subcontractor can, as an option, complete and submit this form to the EPA DBE 
Coordinator at any time during the project period of performance. 
 
Subcontractor Name 
 
Project Name 
Bid/ Proposal No. 
Assistance Agreement ID No. (if known) 
Point of Contact 
 
Address 
 
Telephone No. 
 
Email Address 
Prime Contractor Name 
Issuing/Funding Entity: 
 
Contract 
Item 
Number 
Description of  Work Received from the Prime Contractor  Involving 
Construction,  Services , Equipment or Supplies 
Amount Received 
by Prime 
Contractor 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 A DBE is a Disadvantaged, Minority, or Woman Business Enterprise that has been certified by an entity from which EPA accepts certifications as 
described in 40 CFR 33.204-33.205 or certified by EPA. EPA accepts certifications from entities that meet or exceed EPA certification standards as 
described in 40 CFR 33.202.  
 
2 Subcontractor is defined as a company, firm, joint venture, or individual who enters into an agreement with a contractor to provide 
services pursuant to an EPA award of financial assistance. 
 
388 of 574

--- page 389 ---
EPA FORM 6100-2 (DBE Subcontractor Participation Form) 
 
 
 
OMB Control No: 2090-0030 
Approved: 8/13/2013 
 
  
 
 
 
Approval Expires: 8/31/2015 
 
Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program  
DBE Subcontractor Participation Form 
 
 
Please use the space below to report any concerns regarding the above EPA-funded project: 
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
 
 
 
The public reporting and recordkeeping burden for this collection of information is estimated to average three (3) hours 
per response. Send comments on the Agency's need for this information, the accuracy of the provided burden 
estimates, and any suggested methods for minimizing respondent burden, including through the use of automated 
collection techniques to the Director, Collection Strategies Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (2822T), 1200 
Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Washington, D.C. 20460. Include the OMB control number in any correspondence. Do not send 
the completed form to this address. 
Subcontractor Signature 
Print Name 
 
 
Title 
Date 
 
 
389 of 574

--- page 390 ---
EPA FORM 6100-3 (DBE Subcontractor Performance Form) 
 
 
OMB Control No: 2090-0030 
Approved: 8/13/2013 
Approval Expires: 8/31/2015 
 
Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program  
DBE Subcontractor Performance Form 
 
This form is intended to capture the DBE1 subcontractor’s2 description of work to be performed and the price of 
the work submitted to the prime contractor.  An EPA Financial Assistance Agreement Recipient must require its 
prime contractor to have its DBE subcontractors complete this form and include all completed forms in the prime 
contractors bid or proposal package.  
 
Subcontractor Name 
 
Project Name 
Bid/ Proposal No. 
Assistance Agreement ID No. (if known) 
Point of Contact 
 
Address 
 
Telephone No. 
 
Email Address 
Prime Contractor Name 
Issuing/Funding Entity: 
 
 
Contract Item Number 
Description of  Work Submitted to the Prime Contractor  
Involving Construction,  Services , Equipment or Supplies 
Price of Work 
Submitted to the 
Prime Contractor 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DBE Certified By: ____ DOT              ____ SBA      
____ Other: _________________________________________        
Meets/ exceeds EPA certification standards?   
____ YES   ____ NO  ____ Unknown 
 
 
1 A DBE is a Disadvantaged, Minority, or Woman Business Enterprise that has been certified by an entity from which EPA accepts certifications as 
described in 40 CFR 33.204-33.205 or certified by EPA. EPA accepts certifications from entities that meet or exceed EPA certification standards as 
described in 40 CFR 33.202.  
 
2 Subcontractor is defined as a company, firm, joint venture, or individual who enters into an agreement with a contractor to provide services 
pursuant to an EPA award of financial assistance. 
 
 
390 of 574

--- page 391 ---
EPA FORM 6100-3 (DBE Subcontractor Performance Form) 
 
 
OMB Control No: 2090-0030 
Approved: 8/13/2013 
Approval Expires: 8/31/2015 
 
Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program  
DBE Subcontractor Performance Form 
 
 
I certify under penalty of perjury that the forgoing statements are true and correct.  Signing this form does not 
signify a commitment to utilize the subcontractors above.  I am aware of that  in the event of a replacement of a 
subcontractor, I will adhere to the replacement requirements set forth in 40 CFR Part 33 Section 33.302 (c).   
 
Prime Contractor Signature 
Print Name 
 
 
Title 
Date 
 
 
 
 
 
Subcontractor Signature 
Print Name 
 
 
Title 
Date 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The public reporting and recordkeeping burden for this collection of information is estimated to average three (3) hours 
per response. Send comments on the Agency's need for this information, the accuracy of the provided burden 
estimates, and any suggested methods for minimizing respondent burden, including through the use of automated 
collection techniques to the Director, Collection Strategies Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (2822T), 1200 
Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Washington, D.C. 20460. Include the OMB control number in any correspondence. Do not send 
the completed form to this address. 
391 of 574

--- page 392 ---
EPA FORM 6100-4 (DBE Subcontractor Utilization Form) 
 
 
OMB Control No: 2090-0030 
Approved: 8/13/2013 
Approval Expires: 8/31/2015 
 
Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program 
DBE Subcontractor Utilization Form 
 
This form is intended to capture the prime contractor’s actual and/or anticipated use of identified certified DBE1 
subcontractors2 and the estimated dollar amount of each subcontract.  An EPA Financial Assistance Agreement 
Recipient must require its prime contractors to complete this form and include it in the bid or proposal package.  
Prime contractors should also maintain a copy of this form on file. 
 
Prime Contractor Name 
 
Project Name 
Bid/ Proposal No. 
Assistance Agreement ID No. (if known) 
Point of Contact 
 
Address 
 
Telephone No. 
 
Email Address 
Issuing/Funding Entity: 
 
I have identified potential DBE 
certified subcontractors 
___ YES 
___ NO 
If yes, please complete the table below. If no, please explain: 
 
 
 
Subcontractor Name/ 
Company Name 
 
 
Company Address/ Phone/ Email 
 
Est. Dollar 
Amt 
Currently 
DBE 
Certified? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 A DBE is a Disadvantaged, Minority, or Woman Business Enterprise that has been certified by an entity from which EPA accepts certifications as 
described in 40 CFR 33.204-33.205 or certified by EPA. EPA accepts certifications from entities that meet or exceed EPA certification standards as 
described in 40 CFR 33.202.   
 
2 Subcontractor is defined as a company, firm, joint venture, or individual who enters into an agreement with a contractor to provide 
services pursuant to an EPA award of financial assistance. 
Continue on back if needed 
392 of 574

--- page 393 ---
EPA FORM 6100-4 (DBE Subcontractor Utilization Form) 
 
 
 
 
OMB Control No: 2090-0030 
Approved: 8/13/2013 
Approval Expires: 8/31/2015 
 
Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program 
DBE Subcontractor Utilization Form 
 
 
 
 
I certify under penalty of perjury that the forgoing statements are true and correct.  Signing this form does not 
signify a commitment to utilize the subcontractors above.  I am aware of that  in the event of a replacement of a 
subcontractor, I will adhere to the replacement requirements set forth in 40 CFR Part 33 Section 33.302 (c).   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The public reporting and recordkeeping burden for this collection of information is estimated to average three (3) hours 
per response. Send comments on the Agency's need for this information, the accuracy of the provided burden 
estimates, and any suggested methods for minimizing respondent burden, including through the use of automated 
collection techniques to the Director, Collection Strategies Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (2822T), 1200 
Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Washington, D.C. 20460. Include the OMB control number in any correspondence. Do not send 
the completed form to this address. 
Prime Contractor Signature 
Print Name 
 
 
Title 
Date 
 
 
393 of 574

--- page 394 ---
U.S. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 
MBE/WBE UTILIZATION UNDER FEDERAL GRANTS 
AND COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS 
FOR COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS OR OTHER FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE WHERE THE COMBINED TOTAL OF FUNDS BUDGETED FOR PROCURING SUPPLIES, 
EQUIPMENT, CONSTRUCTION OR SERVICES EXCEED $150,000. 
PART 1: PLEASE REVIEW INSTRUCTIONS BEFORE COMPLETING 
1A. FEDERAL FISCAL YEAR (Oct 1- Sep 30) 
1B. REPORT TYPE 
        20_____ 
☐Annual
☐ Last Report (Project completed)
1C: REVISION OF A PRIOR YEAR REPORT?  ☐ No    ☐ Yes, Year________________ 
IF YES, BRIEFLY DESCRIBE THE REVISIONS YOU ARE MAKING: 
 2A. EPA FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE OFFICE ADDRESS (ATTN: DBE COORDINATOR) 
3A. RECIPIENT NAME AND ADDRESS 
2B. EPA DBE COORDINATOR 
3B. RECIPIENT REPORTING CONTACT  
 Name: 
 Email: 
 Phone: 
 Fax: 
Name: 
Address: 
Phone: 
Email: 
4A. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT ID NUMBER  
(SRF State Recipients, refer to Instructions for Completion of blocks 4A, 5A and 5C) 
 4B.  FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM TITLE OR CFDA NUMBER: 
5A. TOTAL ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT AMOUNT 
       EPA Share:           $ _____________ 
       Recipient Share: $ _____________ 
☐ N/A (SRF Recipient)
 5B. If NO procurements and NO accomplishments were made this reporting  
 period (by the recipients, sub-recipients, loan recipients, and prime contractors),  
CHECK and SKIP to Block No. 7.   (Procurements are all expenditures through  
contract, order, purchase, lease or barter of supplies, equipment, construction,  
or services needed to complete Federal assistance programs.  Accomplishments, 
in this context, are procurements made with MBEs and/or WBEs.)        ☐ 
5C.   
   Total Procurements This Reporting Period (Only include amount not reported in any prior reporting period) 
Total Procurement Amount $________________________  
 (Include total dollar values awarded by recipient, sub-recipients and SRF loan recipients, including MBE/WBE expenditures.) 
5D.     Were sub-awards issued under this assistance agreement?   Yes____  No____  
           Were contracts issued under this assistance agreement?       Yes____  No____ 
5E.   
          MBE/WBE Accomplishments This Reporting Period 
Actual MBE/WBE Procurement Accomplished (Include total dollar values awarded by recipient, sub-recipients, SRF loan recipients and Prime Contractors.) 
Construction  
         Equipment  
   Services   
   Supplies   
  Total 
$MBE:  
   ____________  
  _____________  
  _____________  
  _____________   
   ________________ 
$WBE:  
  ____________  
   ______________   
  ______________  
  _____________  
    ________________ 
6. COMMENTS: (If no MBE/WBE procurements, please summarize how certified MBEs/WBEs were notified of the opportunities to compete for the procurement dollars
entered in Block 5C and why certified MBEs /WBEs were not awarded any procurements during this reporting period.)
7. NAME OF RECIPIENT’S AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
TITLE 
8. SIGNATURE OF RECIPIENT’S AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
DATE 
  OMB CONTROL NO. 2030-0020 
APPROVED:    
04/06/2018 
APPROVAL EXPIRES:  04/30/2021 
EPA FORM 5700-52A available electronically at http://www.epa.gov/osbp/pdfs/5700_52a.pdf 
394 of 574

--- page 395 ---
1. Procurement Made By
2. Business Enterprise 3. $ Value of 
Procurement 
4. Date of 
Procurement 
MM/DD/YY 
5. Type of Product 
or Service 
(Enter Code)
6. Name/Address/Phone Number of MBE/WBE Contractor or Vendor
Recipient Sub-Recipient and/or 
SRF Loan Recipient 
Prime Minority 
Women 
Type of Product or Service Codes:  
1 = Construction 
2 = Supplies 
3 = Services 
4 = Equipment 
Note:  Recipients are required to submit MBE/WBE reports to EPA beginning with the Federal fiscal year the recipients receive the award, continuing until the project is completed. 
PART II. 
MBE/WBE PROCUREMENTS MADE DURING REPORTING PERIOD 
EPA Financial Assistance Agreement Number: __________________
  OMB CONTROL NO. 2030-0020
APPROVED:                 04/06/2018 
APPROVAL EXPIRES:  04/30/2021 
395 of 574

--- page 396 ---
Instructions: 
A. General Instructions:
MBE/WBE utilization is based on 40 CFR Part 33. 
The reporting requirement reflects the class 
deviation issued on November 8, 2013, clarified on 
January 9, 2014 and modified on December 2, 
2014. EPA Form 5700-52A must be completed 
annually by recipients of financial assistance 
agreements where the combined total of funds 
budgeted for procuring supplies, equipment, 
construction or services exceeds $150,000.This 
reporting requirement applies to all new and 
existing awards and voids all previous reporting 
requirements. 
In determining whether the $150,000 threshold 
is exceeded for a particular assistance 
agreement, the analysis must focus on funds 
budgeted for procurement under the supplies, 
equipment, construction, services or “other” 
categories, and include funds budgeted for 
procurement under sub-awards or loans  
Reporting will also be required in cases where the 
details of the budgets of sub-awards/loans are not 
clear at the time of the grant awards and the 
combined total of the procurement and sub-
awards and/or loans exceeds the $150,000 
threshold. 
When reporting is required, all procurement 
actions are reportable, not just the portion which 
exceeds $150,000. 
If at the time of award the budgeted funds exceed 
$150,000 but actual expenditures fall below, a 
report is still required. 
If at the time of award, the combined total of funds 
budgeted for procurements in any category is less 
than or equal to $150,000 and is maintained below 
the threshold, no DBE report is required to be 
submitted. 
Recipients are required to report 30 days after the 
end of each federal year, per the terms and 
conditions of the financial assistance agreement. 
Last reports are due October 30th or 90 days after 
the end of the project period, whichever comes 
first. 
MBE/WBE program requirements, including 
reporting, are material terms and conditions of the 
financial assistance agreement. 
B. Definitions:
Procurement is the acquisition through contract, 
order, purchase, lease or barter of supplies, 
equipment, construction or services needed to 
accomplish Federal assistance programs. 
A contract is a written agreement between an EPA 
recipient and another party (also considered 
“prime contracts”) and any lower tier agreement 
(also considered “subcontracts”) for equipment, 
services, supplies, or construction necessary to 
complete the project.  This definition excludes 
written agreements with another public agency.  
This definition includes personal and professional 
services, agreements with consultants, and 
purchase orders.  
A minority business enterprise (MBE) is a business 
concern that is (1) at least 51 percent owned by 
one or more minority individuals, or, in the case of 
a publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of 
the stock is owned by one or more minority 
396 of 574

--- page 397 ---
individuals; and (2) whose daily business 
operations are managed and directed by one or 
more of the minority owners.  In order to qualify 
and participate as an MBE prime or subcontractor 
for EPA recipients under EPA’s DBE Program, an 
entity must be properly certified as required by 40 
CFR Part 33, Subpart B. 
U.S. citizenship is required.  Recipients shall 
presume that minority individuals include Black 
Americans, Hispanic Americans, Native Americans, 
Asian Pacific Americans, or other groups whose 
members are found to be disadvantaged by the 
Small Business Act or by the Secretary of 
Commerce under section 5 of Executive order 
11625.  The reporting contact at EPA can provide 
additional information. 
A woman business enterprise (WBE) is a business 
concern that is, (1) at least 51 percent owned by 
one or more women, or, in the case of a publicly 
owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock is 
owned by one or more women and (2) whose daily 
business operations are managed and directed by 
one or more of the women owners. In order to 
qualify and participate as a WBE prime or 
subcontractor for EPA recipients under EPA’s DBE 
Program, an entity must be properly certified as 
required by 40 CFR Part 33, Subpart B. 
Business firms which are 51 percent owned by 
minorities or women, but are in fact not managed 
and operated by minorities or females do not 
qualify for meeting MBE/WBE procurement goals.  
U.S. Citizenship is required. 
Good Faith Efforts 
A recipient is required to make the following good 
faith efforts whenever procuring construction, 
equipment, services, and supplies under an EPA 
financial assistance agreement.  These good faith 
efforts for utilizing MBEs and WBEs must be 
documented.  Such documentation is subject to 
EPA review upon request: 
1. Ensure DBEs are made aware of contracting
opportunities to the fullest extent practicable
through outreach and recruitment activities.
For Indian Tribal, State and Local and
Government recipients, this will include placing
DBEs on solicitation lists and soliciting them
whenever they are potential sources.
2. Make information on forthcoming
opportunities available to DBEs and arrange
time frames for contracts and establish delivery
schedules, where the requirements permit, in a
way that encourages and facilitates
participation by DBEs in the competitive
process. This includes, whenever possible,
posting solicitations for bids or proposals for a
minimum of 30 calendar days before the bid or
proposal closing date.
3. Consider in the contracting process whether
firms competing for large contracts could
subcontract with DBEs. For Indian Tribal, State
and local Government recipients, this will
include dividing total requirements when
economically feasible into smaller tasks or
quantities to permit maximum participation by
DBEs in the competitive process.
4. Encourage contracting with a consortium of
DBEs when a contract is too large for one of
these firms to handle individually.
5. Use the services and assistance of the SBA and
the Minority Business Development Agency of
the Department of Commerce.
6. If the prime contractor awards subcontracts,
require the prime contractor to take the steps
in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
397 of 574

--- page 398 ---
C. Instructions for Part I: 
 
1A. 
Specify Federal fiscal year this report covers. 
The Federal fiscal year runs from October 1st 
through September 30th (e.g. November 29, 2014 
falls within Federal fiscal year 2015) 
 
1B. 
Specify report type. Check the annual 
reporting box.  Also indicate if the project is 
completed.  
 
1C. 
Indicate if this is a revision to a previous year 
and provide a brief description of the revision you 
are making. 
 
2A-B.  Please refer to your financial assistance 
agreement for the mailing address of the EPA 
financial assistance office for your agreement. 
 
The “EPA DBE Reporting Contact” is the DBE 
Coordinator for the EPA Region from which your 
financial assistance agreement was originated.  For 
a list of DBE Coordinators please refer to the EPA 
OSBP website at http://epa.gov/osbp/dbe_cord.    
 
3A-B.  Identify the agency, state authority, 
university or other organization which is the 
recipient of the Federal financial assistance and the 
person to contact concerning this report. 
 
4A.   Provide the Assistance Agreement number 
assigned by EPA. A separate report must be 
submitted for each Assistance Agreement. 
 
*For SRF recipients: In box 4a list numbers for ALL 
OPEN Assistance Agreements being reported on 
this form.  
 
4B.  
Refer back to Assistance Agreement 
document for this information. 
5A.  
Provide the total amount of the Assistance 
Agreement which includes Federal funds plus 
recipient matching funds and funds from other 
sources. 
 
*For SRF recipients only: SRF recipients will not 
enter an amount in 5a.  SRF recipients should check 
the “N/A” box. 
 
5B.  
Self-explanatory. 
 
5C.  
Provide the total dollar amount of ALL 
procurements awarded this reporting period by the 
recipient, sub-recipients, and SRF loan recipients, 
including MBE/WBE expenditures, not just the 
portion which exceeds $150,000.  For example:  
Actual dollars for procurement from the procuring 
office; actual contracts let from the contracts 
office; actual goods, services, supplies, etc., from 
other sources including the central purchasing/ 
procurement centers). 
 
 
*NOTE: To prevent double counting on line 5C, if 
any amount on 5E is for a subcontract and the 
prime contract has already been included on Line 
5C in a prior reporting period, then report the 
amount going to MBE or WBE subcontractor on 
line 5E, but exclude the amount from Line 5C.  To 
include the amount on 5C again would result in 
double counting because the prime contract, which 
includes the subcontract, would have already been 
reported.   
 
*For SRF recipients only:  In 5c please enter the 
total annual procurement amount under all of your 
SRF Assistance Agreements. The figure reported in 
this section is not directly tied to an individual 
Assistance Agreement identification number. (SRF 
state recipients report state procurements in this 
section) 
 
 
 
398 of 574

--- page 399 ---
5D. 
State whether or not sub-awards and/or 
subcontracts have been issued under the financial 
assistance agreements by indicating “yes” or “no”. 
5E. 
Where requested, also provide the total 
dollar amount of all MBE/WBE procurement 
awarded during this reporting period by the 
recipient, sub-recipients, SRF loan recipients, and 
prime contractors in the categories of construction, 
equipment, services and supplies. These amounts 
include Federal funds plus recipient matching funds 
and funds from other sources. 
6.
If there were no MBE/WBE accomplishments
this reporting period, please briefly how certified
MBEs/WBEs were notified of the opportunities to
compete for the procurement dollars entered in
Block 5C and why certified MBEs /WBEs were not
awarded any procurements during this reporting
period.
7.
Name and title of official administrator or
designated reporting official.
8.
Signature, month, day, and year report
submitted.
D. Instructions for Part II:
For each MBE/WBE procurement made under this 
financial assistance agreements during the 
reporting period, provide the following 
information: 
1.
Check whether this procurement was made
by the recipient, sub-recipient/SRF loan recipient,
or the prime contractor.
2.
Check either the MBE or WBE column.  If a
firm is both an MBE and WBE, the recipient may
choose to count the entire procurement towards
EITHER its MBE or WBE accomplishments.  The
recipient may also divide the total amount of the
procurement (using any ratio it so chooses) and
count those divided amounts toward its MBE and
WBE accomplishments.  If the recipient chooses to
divide the procurement amount and count portions
toward its MBE and WBE accomplishments, please
state the appropriate amounts under the MBE and
WBE columns on the form.  The combined MBE
and WBE amounts for that MBE/WBE contractor
must not exceed the “Value of the Procurement”
reported in column #3
3.
Dollar value of procurement.
4.
Date of procurement, shown as month, day,
year.  Date of procurement is defined as the date
the contract or procurement was awarded, not the
date the contractor received payment under the
awarded contract or procurement, unless payment
occurred on the date of award.  (Where direct
purchasing is the procurement method, the date
of procurement is the date the purchase was
made)
5.
Using codes at the bottom of the form,
identify type of product or service acquired through
this procurement (e.g., enter 1 if construction, 2 if
supplies, etc.).
6.
Name, address, and telephone number of
MBE/WBE firm.
399 of 574

--- page 400 ---
**This data is requested to comply with provisions mandated by: statute or regulations (40 CFR Parts 30, 31, and 
33 and/or 2 CFR Parts 200 and 1500); OMB Circulars; or added by EPA to ensure sound and effective assistance 
management.  Accurate, complete data are required to obtain funding, while no pledge of confidentiality is 
provided. 
The public reporting and recording burden for this collection of information is estimated to average l hour per 
response annually.  Burden means the total time, effort, or financial resources expended by persons to 
generate, maintain, retain, or disclosure or provide information to or for a Federal agency.  This includes the 
time needed to review instructions; develop, acquire, install, and utilize technology and systems for the 
purposes of collecting, validating, and verifying information, processing and maintaining information, and 
disclosing and providing information; adjust the existing ways to comply with any previously applicable 
instructions and requirements; train personnel to be able to respond to a collection of information; search data 
sources; complete and review the collection of information; and transmit or otherwise  disclose the 
information.  An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of 
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. 
Send comments on the Agency's need for this information,  the accuracy of the provided burden estimates, and 
any suggested methods for minimizing respondent burden, including through the use of automated collection 
techniques to the Director, OPPE Regulatory Information Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (2136), 
1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, D.C. 20460.  Include the OMB Control number in any 
correspondence.  Do not send the completed form to this address.  
400 of 574

--- page 401 ---
Exhibit C: Supplement to Instructions to Bidders (WIFIA and SRF), Project Requirements, WIFIA 
and SRF Funding Requirements 
1. Insert referenced guidelines and Forms 4500-2, 4500-3 and 4500-4 under Exhibit C, Attachment 6,
Supplement to Instructions to Bidders (SRF), State Water Board DBE Requirements.
401 of 574

--- page 402 ---
California State Water Resources Control Board 
Division of Financial Assistance  
1001 I Street • Sacramento, California 95814 • (916) 341-5700 FAX (916) 341-5707 
Mailing Address: P. O. Box 944212 • Sacramento, California • 94244-2120 
Internet Address: http://www.waterboards.ca.gov 
Revised 12/2016 
 
 
Guidelines for Meeting the California State Revolving Fund (CASRF) Programs  
(Clean Water and Drinking Water SRF) 
Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Requirements 
 
The Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program is an outreach, education, and objectives program 
designed to increase the participation of DBEs in the Clean Water State Revolving Fund (CWSRF) and Drinking 
Water State Revolving Fund (DWSRF) Programs. 
 
 
How to Achieve the Purpose of the Program 
 
Recipients of CWSRF/DWSRF financing that are subject to the DBE requirements (recipients) are required to 
seek, and are encouraged to use, DBEs for their procurement needs. Recipients should award a "fair share" of 
sub-agreements to DBEs.  This applies to all sub-agreements for equipment, supplies, construction, and 
services. 
 
The key functional components of the DBE Program are as follows: 
 
• 
Fair Share Objectives 
• 
DBE Certification 
• 
Six Good Faith Efforts 
• 
Contract Administration Requirements 
• 
DBE Reporting 
 
Disadvantaged Business Enterprises are: 
 
• 
Entities owned and/or controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals as described 
by Title X of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 7601 note) (10% statute), and Public 
Law 102-389 (42 U.S.C. 4370d) (8% statute), respectively; 
• 
Minority Business Enterprise (MBE) - entities that are at least 51% owned and/or controlled by a socially 
and economically disadvantaged individual as described by Title X of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 
1990 (42 U.S.C. 7601 note), and Public Law 102-389 (42 U.S.C. 4370d), respectively; 
• 
Women Business Enterprise (WBE) - entities that are at least 51% owned and/or controlled by women; 
• 
Small Business Enterprise (SBE); 
• 
Small Business in a Rural Area (SBRA); 
• 
Labor Surplus Area Firm (LSAF); or 
• 
Historically Underutilized Business (HUB) Zone Small Business Concern or a concern under a 
successor program. 
 
Certifying DBE Firms: 
 
Under the DBE Program, entities can no longer self-certify and contractors and sub-contractors must be certified 
at bid opening. Contractors and sub-contractors must provide to the CASRF recipient proof of DBE certification. 
Certifications will be accepted from the following: 
• 
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) 
• 
The Small Business Administration(SBA) 
• 
The Department of Transportation’s State implemented DBE Certification Program (with U.S. citizenship) 
• 
Tribal, State and Local governments 
• 
Independent private organization certifications 
 
If an entity holds one of these certifications, it is considered acceptable for establishing status under the DBE 
Program. 
 
402 of 574

--- page 403 ---
Revised 12/2016 
 
 Six Good Faith Efforts (GFE) 
 
All CWSRF/DWSRF financing recipients are required to complete and ensure that the prime contractor complies 
with the GFE below to ensure that DBEs have the opportunity to compete for financial assistance dollars. 
 
1. Ensure DBEs are made aware of contracting opportunities to the fullest extent practical through 
outreach and recruitment activities. For Tribal, State and Local Government Recipients, this will include 
placing DBEs on solicitation lists and soliciting them whenever they are potential sources. 
2. Make information on forthcoming opportunities available to DBEs. Posting solicitations for bids or 
proposals for a minimum of 30 calendar days in a local newspaper, before the bid opening date. 
3. Consider in the contracting process whether firms competing for large contracts could subcontract with 
DBEs. 
4. Encourage contracting with a group of DBEs when a contract is too large for one firm to handle 
individually. 
5. Use the services of the SBA and/or Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) of the 
US Department of Commerce. 
6. If the prime contractor awards subcontracts, require the prime contractor to take the above steps. 
 
The forms listed in the table below and attached to these guidelines; must be completed and submitted with the 
GFE: 
 
FORM NUMBER 
FORM NAME 
REQUIREMENT 
PROVIDED 
BY 
COMPLETED 
BY 
SUBMITTED 
TO 
SWRCB Form 
4500-2 or EPA 
Form 
DBE Sub-Contractor 
Participation Form 
As Needed to 
Report Issues 
Recipient 
Sub-
contractor 
EPA DBE 
Coordinator 
SWRCB Form 
4500-3 or EPA 
Form 
DBE Sub-Contractor 
Performance Form 
Include with 
Bid or Proposal 
Package 
Prime 
Contractor 
Sub-
Contractor 
SWRCB by 
Recipient 
SWRCB Form 
4500-4 or EPA 
Form 
DBE Sub-Contractor 
Utilization Form 
Include with 
Bid or Proposal 
Package 
Recipient 
Prime 
Contractor 
SWRCB by 
Recipient 
 
The completed forms must be submitted with each Bid or Proposal. The recipient shall review the bidder’s 
documents closely to determine that the GFE was performed prior to bid or proposal opening date. Failure to 
complete the GFE and to substantiate completion of the GFE before the bid opening date could jeopardize 
CWSRF/DWSRF financing for the project. The following situations and circumstances require action as 
indicated: 
 
1. If the apparent successful low bidder was rejected, a complete explanation must be provided. 
 
2. Failure of the apparent low bidder to perform the GFE prior to bid opening constitutes a non-
responsive bid. The construction contract may then be awarded to the next low, responsive, and 
responsible bidder that meets the requirements or the Recipient may re-advertise the project. 
 
3. If there is a bid dispute, all disputes shall be settled prior to submission of the Final Budget Approval 
Form. 
 
Administration Requirements 
 
• 
A recipient of CWSRF/DWSRF financing must require entities receiving funds to create and maintain a 
Bidders List if the recipient of the financing agreement is subject to, or chooses to follow, competitive 
bidding requirements. 
• 
The Bidders list must include all firms that bid or quote on prime contracts, or bid or quote on 
subcontracts, including both DBEs and non-DBEs. 
403 of 574

--- page 404 ---
Revised 12/2016 
 
• 
Information retained on the Bidder’s List must include the following: 
1. Entity’s name with point of contact; 
2. Entity’s mailing address and telephone number; 
3. The project description on which the entity bid or quoted and when; 
4. Amount of bid/quote; and 
5. Entity’s status as a DBE or non-DBE. 
• 
The Bidders List must be kept until the recipient is no longer receiving funding under the agreement. 
• 
The recipient shall include Bidders List as part of the Final Budget Approval Form. 
• 
A recipient must require its prime contractor to pay its subcontractor for satisfactory performance no 
more than 30 days from the prime contractor’s receipt of payment from the Recipient. 
• 
A recipient must be notified in writing by its prime contractor prior to any termination of a DBE 
subcontractor by the prime contractor. 
• 
If a DBE subcontractor fails to complete work under the subcontract for any reason, the recipient must 
require the prime contractor to employ the six GFEs if soliciting a replacement subcontractor. 
• 
A recipient must require its prime contractor to employ the six GFEs even if the prime contractor has 
achieved its fair share objectives. 
 
Reporting Requirements 
 
For the duration of the construction contract(s), the recipient is required to submit to the State Water Resources 
Control Board DBE reports annually by October 10 of each fiscal year on the attached Utilization Report form 
(UR-334). Failure to provide this information as stipulated in the financial agreement language may be cause for 
withholding disbursements. 
 
 
CONTACT FOR MORE INFORMATION 
 
SWRCB, CASRF – Barbara August (916) 341-6952 barbara.august@waterboards.ca.gov 
US EPA, Region 9 – Joe Ochab (415) 972-3761 ochab.joe@epa.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
404 of 574

--- page 405 ---
Revised 12/2016 
 
 
This page intentionally left blank. 
 
 
405 of 574

--- page 406 ---
Revised 12/2016 
 
 
Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program 
DBE Subcontractor Participation Form 
 
 
A Financial Assistance Agreement Recipient must require its prime contractors to provide this form to its DBE 
subcontractors.  This form gives a DBE1 subcontractor2 the opportunity to describe work received and/or report 
any concerns regarding the funded project (e.g., in areas such as termination by prime contractor, late 
payments, etc.).  The DBE subcontractor can, as an option, complete and submit this form to the DBE 
Coordinator at any time during the project period of performance. 
 
Subcontractor Name 
Project Name 
Bid / Proposal No. 
 
Assistance Agreement ID No. (if known) 
 
Point of Contact 
Address 
Telephone No. 
Email Address 
Prime Contractor Name 
Issuing/Funding Entity 
 
Contract Item 
Number 
Description of Work Received from the Prime Contractor Involving 
Construction, Services, Equipment or Supplies 
Amount Received 
by Prime 
Contractor 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                          
1 A DBE is a Disadvantaged, Minority, or Woman Business Enterprise that has been certified by an entity from which EPA 
accepts certifications as described in 40 CFR 33.204-33.2015 or certified by EPA.  EPA accepts certifications from entities 
that meet or exceed EPA certification standards as described in 40 CFR 33.202. 
2 Subcontractor is defined as a company, firm, joint venture, or individual who enters into an agreement with a contractor 
to provide services pursuant to an award of financial assistance. 
 
 
FORM 4500-2 (DBE Subcontractor Participation Form) 
 
406 of 574

--- page 407 ---
Revised 12/2016 
 
 
Please use the space below to report any concerns regarding the above funded project: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subcontractor Signature 
Print Name 
 
 
Title 
Date 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FORM 4500-2 (DBE Subcontractor Participation Form) 
The public reporting and record keeping burden for this collection of information is estimated to average three (3) hours per 
response.  Send comments on the Agency’s need for this information, the accuracy of the provided burden estimates, and 
any suggested methods for minimizing respondent burden, including through the use of automated collection techniques to 
the Director, Collection Strategies Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (2822T), 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW, 
Washington, D.C. 20460.  Do not send the completed form to this address.   
Send completed Form 4500-2 to: 
Mr. Joe Ochab, DBE Coordinator 
US EPA, Region 9 
75 Hawthorne Street 
San Francisco, CA 94105 
407 of 574

--- page 408 ---
Revised 12/2016 
 
 
Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program 
DBE Subcontractor Performance Form 
 
This form is intended to capture the DBE1 subcontractor’s2 description of work to be performed and the price of 
the work submitted to the prime contractor.  A Financial Assistance Agreement Recipient must require its prime 
contractor to have its DBE subcontractors complete this form and include all completed forms in the prime 
contractor’s bid or proposal package.  
Subcontractor Name 
Project Name 
Bid / Proposal No. 
 
Assistance Agreement ID No. (if known) 
 
Point of Contact 
Address 
Telephone No. 
Email Address 
Prime Contractor Name 
Issuing/Funding Entity 
 
Contract Item 
Number 
Description of Work Submitted from the Prime Contractor Involving 
Construction, Services, Equipment or Supplies 
Price of Work 
Submitted to the 
Prime Contractor 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DBE Certified By:  ___ DOT     ___ SBA 
___ Other: _______________________________________ 
Meets/exceeds EPA certification standards? 
___ YES     ___ NO     ___ Unknown 
 
 
 
                                                          
1 A DBE is a Disadvantaged, Minority, or Woman Business Enterprise that has been certified by an entity from which EPA 
accepts certifications as described in 40 CFR 33.204-33.2015 or certified by EPA.  EPA accepts certifications from entities 
that meet or exceed EPA certification standards as described in 40 CFR 33.202. 
2 Subcontractor is defined as a company, firm, joint venture, or individual who enters into an agreement with a contractor 
to provide services pursuant to an award of financial assistance. 
 
FORM 4500-3 (DBE Subcontractor Performance Form) 
 
 
408 of 574

--- page 409 ---
Revised 12/2016 
 
I certify under penalty of perjury that the forgoing statements are true and correct.  Signing this form does not 
signify a commitment to utilize the subcontractors above.  I am aware that in the event of a replacement of a 
subcontractor, I will adhere to the replacement requirements set forth in 40 CFR Part 33 Section 33.302 (c). 
Prime Contractor Signature 
Print Name 
 
 
Title 
Date 
 
 
 
 
Subcontractor Signature 
Print Name 
 
 
Title 
Date 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FORM 4500-3 (DBE Subcontractor Performance Form) 
The public reporting and record keeping burden for this collection of information is estimated to average three (3) hours per 
response.  Send comments on the Agency’s need for this information, the accuracy of the provided burden estimates, and 
any suggested methods for minimizing respondent burden, including through the use of automated collection techniques to 
the Director, Collection Strategies Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (2822T), 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW, 
Washington, D.C. 20460.  Do not send the completed form to this address. 
409 of 574

--- page 410 ---
Revised 12/2016 
 
Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program 
DBE Subcontractor Utilization Form 
 
This form is intended to capture the prime contractor’s actual and/or anticipated use of identified certified DBE1 
subcontractor’s2 and the estimated dollar amount of each subcontract.  A Financial Assistance Agreement 
Recipient must require its prime contractors to complete this form and include it in the bid or proposal package.  
Prime contractors should also maintain a copy of this form on file. 
Prime Contractor Name 
Project Name 
Bid / Proposal No. 
 
Assistance Agreement ID No. (if known) 
 
Point of Contact 
Address 
Telephone No. 
Email Address 
Issuing/Funding Entity 
 
 
 
I have identified potential DBE certified subcontractors.   ___ YES     ___ NO 
If yes, please complete the table below. If no, please explain: 
 
 
 
Subcontractor Name/ 
Company Name 
Company Address / Phone / Email 
Estimated 
Dollar Amount 
Currently 
DBE 
Certified? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--Continue on back if needed-- 
                                                          
1 A DBE is a Disadvantaged, Minority, or Woman Business Enterprise that has been certified by an entity from which EPA 
accepts certifications as described in 40 CFR 33.204-33.2015 or certified by EPA.  EPA accepts certifications from entities 
that meet or exceed EPA certification standards as described in 40 CFR 33.202. 
2 Subcontractor is defined as a company, firm, joint venture, or individual who enters into an agreement with a contractor 
to provide services pursuant to an award of financial assistance. 
 
FORM 4500-4 (DBE Subcontractor Utilization Form) 
410 of 574

--- page 411 ---
Revised 12/2016 
 
I certify under penalty of perjury that the forgoing statements are true and correct.  Signing this form does not 
signify a commitment to utilize the subcontractors above.  I am aware that in the event of a replacement of a 
subcontractor, I will adhere to the replacement requirements set forth in 40 CFR Part 33 Section 33.302 (c). 
Prime Contractor Signature 
Print Name 
 
 
Title 
Date 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FORM 4500-4 (DBE Subcontractor Utilization Form) 
 
The public reporting and record keeping burden for this collection of information is estimated to average three (3) hours per 
response.  Send comments on the Agency’s need for this information, the accuracy of the provided burden estimates, and 
any suggested methods for minimizing respondent burden, including through the use of automated collection techniques to 
the Director, Collection Strategies Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (2822T), 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW, 
Washington, D.C. 20460.  Do not send the completed form to this address. 
411 of 574

--- page 412 ---
Revised 12/2016 
 
 
 
STATE WATER RESOURCES CONTROL BOARD – DIVISION OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE 
DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISE (DBE) UTILIZATION 
CALIFORNIA STATE REVOLVING FUNDS (CASRF)  
FORM UR-334 
 
1. 
Grant/Finance Agreement Number: 
2. 
Annual Reporting Period 
 
10/1/        through 09/30/  
3. 
Purchase Period of Financing Agreement: 
4. 
Total Payments Paid to Prime Contractor or Sub-Contractors During Current Reporting Period: $ 
5. 
Recipient’s Name and Address: 
6. 
 Recipient’s  Contact   Person  and  Phone  Number:  
7. 
List All DBE Payments Paid by Recipient or Prime Contractor During Current Reporting Period: 
Payment or 
Purchase Paid by 
Recipient or 
Prime Contractor 
Amount Paid to Any DBE Contractor  or 
Sub-Contractor For Service Provided to 
Recipient 
Date of 
Payment 
(MM/DD/YY) 
Procurement 
Type Code** 
(see below) 
Name and Address of DBE Contractor of 
Sub-Contractor or Vendor 
MBE 
WBE 
8. 
Initial here if no DBE contractors or sub-contractors paid during current reporting period: 
9. 
Initial here if all procurements for this contract are completed: 
10.   Comments: 
11.   Signature and Title of Recipient’s Authorized Representative 
12.    Date 
 
 
Email Form UR-334 to: 
DrinkingWaterSRF@waterboards.ca.gov OR CleanWaterSRF@waterboards.ca.gov 
 
Questions may be directed to: 
Barbara August, SWRCB 
Barbara.August@waterboards.ca.gov 
Phone:  (916) 341-6952 
Fax:      (916) 327-7469 
 
**Procurement Type: 
1. Construction 
2. Supplies 
3. Services (includes business services; 
professional services; repair services and 
personnel services) 
4. Equipment 
412 of 574

--- page 413 ---
Revised 12/2016 
 
STATE WATER RESOURCES CONTROL BOARD - DIVISION OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE  
DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISE (DBE) UTILIZATION 
CALIFORNIA STATE REVOLVING FUNDS 
 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING FORM UR-334 
 
 
 
Box 1 
Grant or Financing Agreement Number. 
 
Box 2 
Annual reporting period. 
 
Box 3 
Enter the dates between which you made procurements under this financing agreement or 
grant. 
 
Box 4 
Enter the total amount of payments paid to the contractor or sub-contractors during this 
reporting period. 
 
Box 5 
Enter Recipient’s Name and Address. 
 
Box 6 
Enter Recipient’s Contact Name and Phone Number. 
 
Box 7      Enter details for the DBE purchases only and be sure to limit them to the current period.  
1) Use either an “R” or a “C” to represent “Recipient” or “Contractor.”  2) Enter a dollar total 
for DBE and total the two columns at the bottom of the section.  3) Provide the payment 
date.  4) Enter a product type choice from those at the bottom of the page. 5) List the 
vendor name and address in the right-hand column 
 
Box 8 
Initial here if no DBE contractors or sub-contractors were paid during this reporting period. 
 
Box 9       Initial this box only if all purchases under this financing agreement or grant have been 
completed during this reporting period or a previous period.  If you initial this box, we will no 
longer send you a survey. 
 
Box 10 
This box is for explanatory information or questions. 
 
Box 11 
Provide an authorized representative signature. 
 
Box 12 
Enter the date form completed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
413 of 574

--- page 414 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-2905
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
May 4, 2020 
SUBJECT:
North Shoreview Flood Improvement Construction Management Services - Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with 4Leaf, Inc. for construction management services on the North Shoreview Flood Improvement 
project in the amount of $2,693,541, establish a contingency reserve of $270,000, and authorize the Public Works Director 
to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue amendments within the contingency reserve.
BACKGROUND:
The North Shoreview Flood Improvement project is a multifaceted plan designed to protect northern San Mateo residents 
from 100-year storm floods and remove a portion of residential parcels from the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency’s Special Flood Hazard Area. 
The project has an estimated construction cost of approximately $23.7 million and is projected to take approximately two 
years to construct. The full of scope of work includes raising a 1,300-foot levee segment located between the San Mateo 
and Burlingame border off Airport Boulevard and adjacent to the Peninsula Humane Society. The work also includes 
updating electrical controls, correcting structural deficiencies, installing backup power generation, increasing pumping 
capacity at the Coyote Point and Poplar Avenue Pump Stations, and installing trash capture devices. 
The City released a formal Request for Proposal (RFP) on January 22, 2019 for Construction Management Support Services 
on the North Shoreview Flood Improvement Project requesting full support for construction inspection, biological 
monitoring, material testing, and survey support services. The City received five (5) proposals: Ghirardelli Associates, 
4Leaf, Anchor CM, Consolidated CM, and MCK on February 22, 2019 and conducted an initial review of the proposals. 
Interviews were conducted on shortlisted candidates and staff selected 4Leaf based on its construction 
management/inspection experience on projects of similar nature and due to the strength of their overall support team. 
Staff recommends award of the agreement to 4Leaf, Inc. in the amount of $2,693,541. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds for this agreement are available in the North Shoreview Flood Improvement Project. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Under section 15074 of the CEQA Guidelines, the City Council adopted a negative declaration for this project on October 
19, 2015. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
414 of 574

--- page 415 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Jimmy Vo, Senior Engineer 
jvo@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7319 
Matthew Zucca, Deputy Director 
mzucca@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7308
415 of 574

--- page 416 ---
Professional Services   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 11 
Rev 9/17 
AGREEMENT WITH 4LEAF, INC. 
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
FOR  
North Shoreview Flood Improvement Project 
 
 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and 4LEAF, a corporation, (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 2126 Rheem Drive Pleasanton, 
CA 94588. 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
 
A.  CITY desires certain construction management services hereinafter described. 
 
 
B.  CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these construction management 
services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT 
has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 ‐ SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 ‐ DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT. 
 
SECTION 3 ‐ DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work. 
 
416 of 574

--- page 417 ---
Professional Services   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 11 
Rev 9/17 
SECTION 4 ‐ TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on 5/1/2020 and be 
completed on or about 11/1/2022. 
 
SECTION 5 ‐ PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount 
of $2,693,541, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by 
reference. 
 
SECTION 6 ‐ TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
 
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation. 
 
SECTION 7 ‐ OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not. 
 
SECTION 8 ‐ CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
SECTION 9 ‐ INTEREST OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
417 of 574

--- page 418 ---
Professional Services   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 11 
Rev 9/17 
SECTION 10 ‐ CONSULTANT'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 ‐ INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONSULTANT’s performance of this Agreement, except those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. 
 
SECTION 12 ‐ INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 ‐ NON‐ASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 14 ‐ RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation. 
 
418 of 574

--- page 419 ---
Professional Services   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 11 
Rev 9/17 
SECTION 15 ‐ WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the 
same or of any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of 
any fee or other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any 
preceding breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement 
or of any applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 ‐ SEVERABILITY 
 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 17 ‐ COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 18 ‐ NON‐DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 19 ‐ MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed‐upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
419 of 574

--- page 420 ---
Professional Services   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 11 
Rev 9/17 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 20 ‐ LITIGATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 21 ‐ NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Brad Underwood 
Public Works Director 
City of San Mateo   
330 W 20th Avenue  
San Mateo, CA 94403  
 
To CONSULTANT: 
4LEAF, Inc. 
Attn:  Tricia Baxter 
Senior Engineer  
4 Leaf, Inc.  
2126 Rheem Drive 
Pleasanton, CA  94588 
 
SECTION 22 ‐ AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT. 
 
SECTION 23 ‐ AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party. 
 
420 of 574

--- page 421 ---
Professional Services   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 11 
Rev 9/17 
 
SECTION 24 ‐ GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  
 
421 of 574

--- page 422 ---
Professional Services   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 11 
Rev 9/17 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and 4LEAF, Inc. have executed this Agreement the 
day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Brad B. Underwood 
Public Works Director 
 
 
 
 
 
<Insert Name>  
Its Authorized Agent 
<Insert Title> 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2) 
Vice  President  plus  an  additional  corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below. 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
Caio Arellano 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
 
<Insert Name>  
<Insert Title> 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Fee Rates 
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
422 of 574

--- page 423 ---
Exhibit A – Scope of Service 
 
4LEAF will provide the City of San Mateo with Construction Management services for the North Shoreview 
Flood Improvement project.  At a minimum, 4LEAF shall provide one (1) dedicated Construction Manager 
(CM), at  least  one  (1)  full‐time,  on‐site  inspector  for  the  duration  of  the  project,  and  any  additional 
supporting staff necessary to provide full inspection coverage and construction management services for 
tasks described below.   
 
4LEAF will retain all necessary sub‐consultants to provide specialty services and inspection to include but 
not limited to environmental permit compliance, biological surveys, construction surveys, material testing, 
electrical/structural inspection, and SWPPP compliance. 
 
Task 1 – Preconstruction Phase 
a. Project Review 
i. 4LEAF and it’s subconsultants will review all project plans, specifications, permits, 
agreements,  correspondence,  and  any  other  relevant  project  documents 
available.  
b. Meetings 
i. 4LEAF’s team will coordinate, prepare agendas for, chair, and provide minutes for 
all meetings including the weekly progress meetings, periodic meetings with the 
City,  as  well  as  any  additional  stakeholder  meetings  that  may  be  necessary  to 
successfully complete the project. 
1. Attend kick‐off meeting with City project team 
2. Conduct a pre‐construction conference with the project team including 
City  staff,  the  contractor  and  subcontractors,  stakeholders  and 
representatives from federal, state and local agencies, design engineers, 
and other interested parties on project details, procedures, special permit 
requirements, coordination, scheduling, and other pertinent information. 
3. Coordinate and conduct weekly progress meetings 
c. Evaluate  the  Construction  Contractor’s  contract  schedule  for  actual  versus  planned 
progress and document all scheduling discrepancies and deviations. To do this 4LEAF will 
do the following: 
i. We will continually review the schedule to ensure they include long lead items, as 
well as potential impacts to the schedule from local venues, such as the Poplar 
Creek Golf Course and Coyote Point Yacht Club. 
ii. We  will  consistently  review  and  monitor  the  project  schedule  to  ensure  the 
contractor is updating the schedule frequently and providing 3‐week look‐ahead 
schedules.  We  will  request  updates  as  appropriate,  and  track  delays  or 
accelerations based on actual contractor operations. 
iii. We will continually assess critical project items to assist in determining the best 
use of schedule float in the contractors’ critical path method (CPM) schedules to 
avoid down time. 
iv. We will coordinate regularly with the City regarding all construction activities and 
impacts to the baseline and 3‐week look‐ahead schedules. 
v. We will recommend introducing various phasing options to deal with potential 
worst‐case  scenarios  in  scheduling  for  the  project;  such  as  concurrent  project 
delays, inclement weather delays, etc. 
423 of 574

--- page 424 ---
vi. We will include “what if” meetings as the project progresses; for example, what if 
we accelerate a portion of construction‐ how would that affect the overall CPM. 
d. Records can be kept and maintained using hardcopies or e‐copy or both. Baseline records 
including  permits  and  permits  status,  required  pre‐bid  activities,  addenda  and  pre‐bid 
meeting  agenda  and  notes,  conformed  bid  documents,  bid  documents,  bonds  and 
insurances, notice of awards and notice to proceed records will be kept. 
e. Prepare  and  submit  construction  monthly  progress  reports  along  with  monthly  CM 
payment invoice. Monthly progress reports shall include the following: 
i. Overview of work accomplished, including photos; 
ii. Work to be completed the following month; 
iii. Updated schedule of work; 
iv. Explanations for deviations from the initial schedule; 
v. Explanation  of  any  upcoming  risks/problem  areas  and  corrective  action  to  be 
taken; and 
vi. Status of submittals, RFIs, change orders, and claims.  
f. Review  of  Construction  Contractor’s  work  for  compliance  with  contract  documents, 
environmental documents, state laws, regulations, etc. 
i. The first order of work for the 4LEAF team will be to understand the project scope 
and site and review the contract documents, including the construction drawings 
and specifications, addenda, cost estimates and quantitates, design reports and 
studies, resource agency permits, utility relocations plans, etc.  
g. Review Construction Contractor submittals for compliance with contract documents and 
coordinate Project Manager and Design Engineer review. 
i. 4LEAF will prepare and maintain a detailed checklist and submittal log of required 
shop  drawings,  submittals,  samples,  required  factory  or  shop  inspections, 
certifications,  operation  and  maintenance  manuals,  training,  spare  parts  and 
special tools. 4LEAF will perform a timely, thorough review of all submittals and 
scope drawings for completeness and conformity as they are submitted by the 
contractor prior to either approving the submittal for use on the project or prior 
to forwarding them on to the designer of record for their review and approval. 
h. Review  Construction  Contractor  Requests  for  Information  (RFIs)  and  coordinate  with 
Design Engineer for resolution and response. Log all RFIs and associated response. 
i. Review  Construction  Contractor  monthly  invoices  and  recommend  payment  requests. 
4LEAF will submit a monthly Budget Analysis Report with their monthly invoice. These 
reports will be updated monthly, submitted to the City’s designated Project Manager, and 
reviewed in a monthly update meeting, if necessary. The frequency of reporting/meeting 
and content of each report will be discussed in detail with City staff following contract 
award. The content of the report is outlined as follows: 
i. Original Budget Amount 
ii. Percent Complete 
iii. Percent Expended 
iv. Percent of Project Completed 
v. Amount Invoiced to Date 
vi. Remaining Budget to Date 
vii. Pertinent Comments 
424 of 574

--- page 425 ---
viii. Dates Performed 
j. Provide Construction Contractor with acceptability or deficiencies in work and required 
actions for contract compliance. 
k. Maintain project documents files in the format and location specified by the City. 
 
2. Public Outreach 
a. The project must minimize the impact to the community in order to gain their trust in 
meeting the City’s commitment to them. 
b. 4LEAF will communicate the schedule of when the individual businesses and residences in 
the area will be directly impacted. 
c. 4LEAF will listen and recognize comments and suggestions from the community to avoid 
conflicts that could affect the project and the City. 
d. We recommend that in addition to providing safe access to the Peninsula Humane Society 
and SPCA for its staff and the public, the area between the Peninsula Humane Society and 
SPCA and the construction site should include a barrier for noise and visibility to avoid 
prolonged disturbance to the animals. 
 
3. Traffic Control 
a. 4LEAF’s Construction inspector will continuously monitor the contractor’s traffic control 
measures and ensure they are in place before the start of each work day, maintained 
throughout  the  work  day,  and  in  place  at  the  end  of  each  work  day.  This  will  include 
ensuring the contractor provides all the required notification signage and the appropriate 
number of flagmen. 
b. 4LEAF will regularly monitor the implementation of traffic control plans for consistency 
and safety for the construction crews, vehicular traffic, and the public, in general. 
4. Construction Observation/Inspection 
a. Using digital and/or video camera, the 4LEAF team will record the existing conditions of 
the project site and area(s) of new construction before the contractor starts work, during 
construction,  and  then  again  at  the  completion  of  construction  activities.  This 
documentation  will  be  a  useful  tool  in  identifying  and/or  assigning  ownership  of  any 
damage to existing City‐or privately‐owned facilitates once work begins.  
b. Inspect and observe Construction Contractor’s work daily for compliance with the contract 
documents. 
c. Maintain daily inspection reports of work, including photos, descriptions of daily activities, 
weather,  shift  hours,  traffic  controls,  SWPPP  erosion  control  measure  conditions,  dust 
control  mitigations,  permit  compliance,  labor  and  equipment  hours,  quantities,  any 
corrective actions to be taken by Construction Contractor, persons and equipment onsite, 
and work to be completed the following day(s).  
d. Review of materials and equipment delivered to site for compliance with submittals and 
contract documents. 
i. Inspection  of  materials  and  equipment  deliveries  will  be  completed  while  the 
material  and  equipment  are  still  on  the  truck.    As  controlling  operations  are 
performed, 4LEAF’s Construction Inspector will collect certificates of compliance, 
AC weight tags, and bills of lading for materials delivered to the site. 
e. 4LEAF’s Construction Manager will complete separate independent reports with photos 
and information related to change order analysis, monthly schedule review and analysis, 
progress payment evaluation, and Weekly Statement of Working Days.  
425 of 574

--- page 426 ---
f. 
Coordinate and provide material testing and specialty inspections as required. 
i. 4LEAF’s  team  firm,  Construction  Testing  Services  (CTS),  will  perform  special 
inspections and materials testing per Caltrans Standard Specifications, American 
Concrete  Institute  (ACI)  and  ASTM  Standards,  and  additional  project  specific 
quality assurance requirements.  
g. Review of Construction Contractor’s compliance with all permits, stormwater regulations 
and permits (Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP)), environmental documents, 
and mitigation measures. 
h. Review  of  Construction  Contractor’s  compliance  with  health  and  safety  standards  and 
regulations and reporting of non‐compliance. 
i. 
Monitor record documents to ensure proper maintenance and completion by Contractor. 
j. 
Environmental Compliance Construction Activities 
i. Biological Monitoring 
1. This  task  includes  time  for  a  qualified  biological  monitor  to  check  for 
stranded aquatic life as the water level in the dewatering area drops. The 
biological  monitor  will  remain  on  site  while  the  cofferdam  (or  similar 
structure) is installed and the work area is dewatered in order to ensure 
that no aquatic life is stranded in the dry work area. This scope of work 
assumes that the cofferdam for each project will take one day to install 
(CDFW  LSAA  Condition  2.26);  therefore,  only  two  8‐hour  days  will  be 
required for fish relocation. This scope of work also includes time for a 
qualified  biological  monitor  to  remain  on‐site  during  all  vegetation 
removal activities, work on the northern side of the Bayfront Levee to 
monitor for Ridgway’s rail, and concrete work. This scope of work assumes 
that no more than 46 8‐hour days will be required for vegetation removal, 
work on the northern side of the Bayfront Levee, and concrete work.  The 
biological monitor will also be on‐site daily to inspect the construction 
contractor’s  work  daily  for  compliance  with  the  permit  conditions, 
including, but not limited to, maintenance of silt fencing and checking for 
wildlife under stockpiles and other construction material, as well as to 
attend morning pre‐construction meetings. This scope of work assumes 
that daily biological monitoring could be required for up to 382 weekdays 
and 88 Saturday 4‐hour work days (i.e., 5 days a week and Saturdays less 
the full days above). 
ii. Client/Contractor Coordination 
1. In our experience, it is essential that the biological monitor stay informed 
of project activities and be available to answer any questions that may 
come up regarding the permit measures. Therefore, this task includes time 
to update the permit matrix; attend a 1‐hour weekly telephone call with 
the project team; coordinate on a weekly basis with the contractor for up 
to  40  hours,  including  regarding  the  low  tide  window  (CDFW  LSAA 
Condition 2.7) and  weather forecast (CDFW LSAA 2.8); and coordinate 
with the City for up to 20 hours 
iii. Post‐Construction Monitoring Report 
1. MIG will prepare draft and final reports for both projects for the City. The 
reports will identify the monitoring tasks, the dates they were completed, 
and  results.  The  applicable  permit  conditions  and  before  and  after 
photographs of the project site will be attached as an appendix to the 
426 of 574

--- page 427 ---
report. This task includes time to address comments from the City and 
respond to one round of comments/report revision. This task assumes 
that the City and/or contractor will provide the as‐built drawings. 
 
5. Change Order Management  
a. Coordinate, review, and evaluate potential change orders and cost estimates/quotations. 
b. Coordinate, review, evaluate, and recommend course of action for contract change order 
requests and submittals 
c. Inspect  and  evaluate  site  conditions  that  are  perceived  to  be  different  than  shown  in 
contract documents. 
d. Review, gather, and evaluate information for resolution of potential claims or disputes. 
i. A log of Notices of Potential Claims will be prepared and updated for discussion at 
regular City meetings and/or weekly progress meetings.  
e. 4LEAF will take no action without the review and approval of the city.   
 
6. Project closeout and Acceptance Services 
a. The  post‐construction  and  contract  closeout  phase  consists  of  three  distinct  closeout 
elements: physical closeout, document closeout, and fiscal closeout as follows: 
i. Physical closeout consists of a series of inspections performed to document that 
the work is complete to one of two levels:  (1) Substantial Completion – when 
work, or a designated portion of the work, is sufficiently complete that the client 
or the public may utilize it; or (2) Final Completion – acceptance by the client that 
the project is completed in full.  Applicable certificates will be issued at each stage 
of completion, and punch lists will be updated during each inspection. 
ii. Document closeout  is the process  of assembling and transferring the required 
contract  files  from  4LEAF  to  the  City  when  the  contract  is  complete.    A  final 
construction completion report will be prepared and submitted to the City that 
includes a summary of the schedule, budget and costs, as‐built records prepared 
by 4LEAF’s Inspector, operations and maintenance manuals, compact discs and / 
or USB copies, training sign‐offs, equipment representative contact information, 
warranties, payment and lien releases from suppliers and subcontractors, permit 
sign offs, and locks and keys to structures, panels and enclosures.    
iii. Fiscal closeout includes the review of contract administration (submittal log, RFI 
log,  punch  lists,  etc.),  accounting,  and  financial  functions  to  confirm  they  are 
coordinated  with  physical  closeout  functions  to  ensure  that  no  outstanding 
financial liability is present after the final payments / retentions are made to the 
contractor.    
b. Perform site inspection(s) to determine if facilities are complete and in compliance with 
contract documents. 
c. Develop  corrective  item  work  lists  (punch  lists)  and  inspection  of  corrective  actions 
performed. 
d. Recommend retention release to Construction Contractor 
e. Verify  all  O&M  Manual  submittals  as  well  as  spare  parts  as  required  by  the  contract 
documents.  
f. 
Coordinate final submittal of organized and complete record drawings in accordance with 
contract documents, 
427 of 574

--- page 428 ---
g. Verify  Construction  Contractor  has  made  all  payments  and  that  all  required  releases 
including warrant release, lien release(s), and release of claims have been submitted by 
Construction Contractor.  
h. Prepare and submit final construction report.  
 
7. Environmental Compliance Pre‐Construction Activities 
The Project has been issued a final LSAA from CDFW, a USACE Nationwide Permit, USFWS Not Likely to 
Adversely Affect Concurrence for impacts to California  Ridgway’s Rail (Rallus  obsoletus  obsoletus;, 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration National Marine Fisheries Service (NOAA Fisheries) 
Not  Likely  to  Adversely  Affect  Concurrence  for  impacts  to  central  California  coast  steelhead 
(Oncorhynchus mykiss), North American green sturgeon (Acipenser medirostris), and Essential Fish 
Habitat, and a RWQCB Water Quality Certification. As mentioned earlier, the 4LEAF team includes MIG 
to perform environmental compliance and biological monitoring and, in‐house 4LEAF staff to provide 
environmental compliance in support of the Project. 
a. Agency Coordination 
i. MIG  will  prepare  and  submit  MIG  biologists’  resumed  to  the  USFWS,  NOAA 
Fisheries,  and/or  CDFW  for  approval  prior  to  construction.  MIG  will  contact 
agencies in the event questions about permit conditions come up in the course of 
monitoring, in the event a special‐status species is found and the permit conditions 
require  agency  notification,  or  in  the  event  that  the  work  period  needs  to  be 
extended.  
b. Worker Education Program 
i. In accordance with CDFW LSAA Condition 2.15, MIG will prepare an environmental 
education  program  for  workers  that  includes  a  description  of  special‐status 
species, regulations protecting the species, measures that should be implemented 
to protect the species, and penalties for non‐compliance of conditions. As part of 
the  training,  MIG  will  prepare  and  provide  handouts,  including  colored 
photographs for species identification and contact phone numbers for key project 
personnel. A qualified MIG biologist will conduct the training for all employees, 
contractors, or other personnel working on the project site prior to them starting 
work.  Upon  completion  of  the  training,  the  MIG  biologist  will  ensure  that  all 
employees, contractors, or other personnel working at the project site sign a form 
stating  they  attended  the  training  program  and  understand  all  protection 
measures.  These  sign‐in  sheets  will  be  kept  on  site  and  in  the  MIG  biologist’s 
project binder. This scope of work assumes only two trainings (one training for 
each project) will be performed by MIG and that each training can be conducted 
in one 4‐hour field visit (including travel time). 
c. Fencing/Flagging and Photo Documentation 
i. In accordance with CDFW LSAA Condition 2.14, MIG biologists will work with the 
construction crew to delineate the project area with flagging, silt fencing, and/or 
5‐foot tall bright orange plastic fencing. MIG will also clearly mark/flag any areas 
that should be avoided during construction (e.g., wetland areas or trees adjacent 
to the work area not identified in the permit application) prior to construction. We 
assume that the construction crew will flag or fence the work area and we can 
work with that crew to assure sensitive resources are avoided in that process. As 
part of this task, MIG will also establish photo documentation points in accordance 
with RWQCB WQC Monitoring Requirements 6.6.28. This scope of work assumes 
428 of 574

--- page 429 ---
that flagging and pre‐construction photo documentation can be conducted at the 
same time as the pre‐construction surveys; therefore, an additional site visit will 
not be required for this task. Hours associated with this task are included in the 
Pre‐construction survey tasks. 
d. Permit Binder Preparation 
i. Condition 1.1 and Condition 1.2 of the CDFW LSAA requires that a copy of the 
project permits  be provided to all contractors, subcontractors, inspectors,  and 
monitors and be kept on the project site at all times. MIG will prepare permit 
binders to comply with this condition. In addition, based on our past experience, 
we have found that preparing a permit matrix has ensured projects are kept on 
track since the permit conditions can be easily referenced and compliance with 
the permit conditions can be easily documented. As a result, MIG will prepare a 
permit matrix to include in the permit binder. This scope of work assumes no more 
than five permit binders will be required.    
e. Ridgway’s Rail Survey 
i. Condition 2.2 of the CDFW LSAA requires that work on the northern side of the 
Bayfront Levee for the outfall structure be confined to the period of September 1 
to October 31 to avoid potential impacts to Ridgway’s rail. This scope of work 
assumes  that  any  work  within  the  San  Francisco  Bay,  including  the  outfall 
structure, can be conducted between September 1 and October 31. As a result, 
protocol‐level Ridgway’s rail surveys will not  be required. Condition 2.5  of the 
CDFW  LSAA  requires  that  a  qualified  biologist  conduct  surveys  in  appropriate 
habitat for rails within the work area, including staging areas and access routes no 
more than seven days prior to initiation of construction. If rails are observed within 
or near the work area, the biologist will implement a no disturbance buffer of a 
minimum of 50 feet. This scope of work assumes that rails will not be routinely 
observed on‐site; therefore, a species avoidance plan in accordance with CDFW 
LSAA Condition 2.6 will not be required. The biologist will remain on‐site during 
work within or near the San Francisco Bay to ensure rails are not present and 
appropriate buffers are implemented. 
f. 
Nesting Bird Surveys 
i. Condition 2.19 of the CDFW LSAA requires a survey for nesting birds within 15 days 
prior to construction work if the  work will occur in the  avian breeding season 
(generally between February 15 and September 15). Construction is anticipated to 
start in summer 2019; therefore, a nesting bird survey will be required. This scope 
of work assumes that construction will not lapse for more than 15 days; therefore, 
only one nesting bird survey will be required for each project site. If a nest is found, 
the CDFW LSAA requires no disturbance buffers be implemented around the nest. 
The MIG biologist will flag the area of the no disturbance buffer to ensure that 
construction crews are aware of the no disturbance area immediately after an 
active nest is found. This scope of work assumes that the no disturbance buffer 
can be implemented and consultation with CDFW to reduce the buffers will not be 
required. The budget assumes that any additional follow‐up monitoring of the 
nests can conducted during the daily inspections. Results of the survey will be 
documented in a brief memo report that will be submitted to CDFW (CDFW LSAA 
Condition 4.1). This task includes time to address comments from the City and 
respond to one round of comments/memo revision. 
g. Bat Survey 
429 of 574

--- page 430 ---
i. Condition 2.16 of the CDFW LSAA requires a qualified biologist conduct a survey 
for nesting/roosting bats 48 hours prior to commencement of the project. The 
biologist will check all suitable habitat for bats (e.g., cavities, crevices, exfoliating 
bark,  and  bark  fissures)  within  200  feet  of  the  project  site  using  roof‐prism 
binoculars supplemented with a flashlight or spotlight, as needed. When possible, 
the biologist will examine the features by looking directly inside them. If any trees 
that will be disturbed are found to have suitable habitat or bats/evidence of bats 
are found, the biologist will mark the area with flagging. The biologist will also 
contact the CDFW prior to commencement of the project if any roosting features, 
evidence  of  bats,  or  bats  are  found  and  determine  the  appropriate  mitigation 
measures (e.g., removal, seasonal work restrictions). This scope of work assumes 
that no bats or evidence of bats will be observed; therefore, additional measures 
will not be required. Results of the survey will be documented in a brief memo 
report that will be submitted to the CDFW (CDFW LSAA Condition 4.1). 
h. Focused Plant Survey 
i. Condition 2.17 of the CDFW LSAA requires a qualified biologist conduct a protocol‐
level survey for sensitive plant species during the peak blooming period for each 
plant that could be present in the project area prior to project activities. Based on 
a  review  of  the  project  permits,  Davidson’s  bushmallow  (Malacothamnus 
davidsonii) is the only plant expected to be present in the project area. MIG will 
conduct  a  focused  floristic  survey  within  the  blooming  period  for  Davidson’s 
bushmallow (June‐January) in accordance with the CDFW’s Protocols for Surveying 
and  Evaluating  Impacts  to  Special‐Status  Native  Plant  Populations  and 
SpecialStatus  Communities  (CDFW  2018)  and  the  USFWS  Guidelines  for 
Conducting and Reporting Botanical Inventories for Federally Listed, Proposed, 
and Candidate Plants (USFWS 1996). If any special‐status plant species is observed 
during the survey, the qualified biologist will determine the number of individuals 
present and the limits of the area occupied by the population will be marked with 
flagging and geo‐located. This scope of work assumes that special‐status plants 
can  be  avoided;  therefore,  additional  measures  to  protect  or  compensate  for 
special‐status plants will not be required. Results of the survey will be documented 
in a brief memo report that will be submitted to CDFW (CDFW LSAA Condition 4.1). 
This task includes time to address comments from the City and respond to one 
round of comments/memo revision.   
 
 
 
 
430 of 574

--- page 431 ---
REVISED
Estimated Fees to Provide CM Services 
 for the North Shoreview Flood Improvement Project for the City of San Mateo
(Hours for float days removed per City)
 7/18/2019
Task
Sub 
Task
Task Description 
Project Manager  (4LEAF)
Construction Manager (4LEAF) 
(RT)
Project Engineer (4LEAF) (RT)
Construction Inspector - LEVEE    
AND COYOTE PUMP STATION 
(4LEAF) (RT)
Construction Inspector - LEVEE 
AND COYOTE PUMP STATION 
(4LEAF) (Sat. - OT)
Construction Inspector - 
POPLAR PUMP STATION (4LEAF) 
(RT)
Construction Inspector - 
POPLAR PUMP STATION (4LEAF) 
(OT / Sat.)
Electrical / Structural  Inspector 
(4LEAF) (RT)
Public Works Inspector 
Apprentice
Total Hours Per Task
Cost Per Task
Notes
Hourly Rate
$150
$155
$147
$141
$190
$141
$190
$130
$92
See Notes (a), (b), & (c).
1
Preconstruction Phase
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
1a
Review Existing, Available Project Documents.
4
100
8
24
0
24
0
4
164
$24,564
See Note (d).
1b
Attend Kick-off Meeting.
3
3
0
3
0
3
0
0
12
$1,761
1c
Document Existing Site Conditions.
4
8
8
8
0
8
0
0
36
$5,272
1d
Coordination Meetings.
18
18
18
18
0
0
0
0
72
$10,674
See Note (e). 
1e
Prepare for and Attend Pre-Construction Meeting.
16
24
4
4
0
4
0
0
52
$7,836
1f
Review Contractor Submittals.
0
100
80
0
0
0
0
0
180
$27,260
1g
Project Management.
32
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
32
$4,800
Task 1 Subtotal:  
77
253
118
57
0
39
0
4
548
$82,167
2
Construction Phase
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
2a
Perform Construction Management.
0
4,240
0
0
0
0
0
4,240
$657,200
See Note (f). 
2b
Perform Construction Inspection.
0
0
0
3,280
744
1,280
256
0
5,560
$833,310
See Note (f). 
2c
Perform Environmental Permit Compliance Support.
0
0
528
0
0
0
0
0
528
$77,616
See Note (g).
2d
Perform Electrical and Structural Inspections.
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
739
739
$96,096
See Note (h).
2e
Materials Testing & Special Inspection (CTS).
$313,091
See Note (i).
2f
Environmental Permit Compliance and Biological Monitoring (MIG).
$386,982
See Note (j).
2g
Quality Assurance Survey (Bellecci).
$37,344
See Note (k).
2h
Mark-up on Subconsultant (5%).
$36,871
2i
Project Management.
336
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
336
$50,400
See Note (l).
Task 2 Subtotal:  
336
4,240
528
3,280
744
1,280
256
739
11,403
$2,488,910
3
Post Construction Phase
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
3a
Construction Management - Project Closeout.
0
80
0
0
0
0
0
0
80
$12,400
3b
Final Inspections and Provide Red-Lined Set of Plans.
0
0
0
80
0
80
0
0
160
$22,560
3c
Project Management.
24
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
24
$3,600
Task 3 Subtotal:  
24
80
0
80
0
80
0
0
264
$38,560
TOTAL (4LEAF + CTS + MIG + Bellecci):  
437
4,573
646
3,417
744
1,399
256
743
12,215
$2,609,637
4
Public Works Inspection Apprenticeship (if Required)
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
Hours
4a
Provide Public Works Inspection Apprentice
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
912
912
$83,904
See Notes (a) and (b).
Task 4 Subtotal (Apprentice Only)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
912
912
$83,904
TOTAL (4LEAF + CTS+MIG+Bellecci + Apprentice if required)
437
4,573
646
3,417
744
1,399
256
743
912
13,127
$2,693,541
Notes:
(k) For budgetary purposes only.  See attached estimate from Bellecci.  The exact level of effort for this task has not been defined at this time.
(l) Assumes 16 hours per month for 21 months (September 2019 - May 2021) for Project Manager to coordinate with 4LEAF Construction Manager and Inspector and City's Project Manager.
(e) Assumes Project Manager, Construction Manager, Project Engineer, and Inspector will attend (6) coordination meetings at (3) hours each (includes (1) hour each meeting for driving to/from meeting.)
(d) Not intended as a Biddability and Constructability Review.  Only includes hours for project team to review existing documents to become familiar with the project. Hours included per recommendation by City.
(a) Assumes project will require compliance with California Prevailing Wage rate requirements under SB 854, and the Client will be required to file a PWC-100 Form to the California Department of Industrial Relations for the project.  
(b) Per the new requirements being enforced under SB 854 and because it is assumed that a PWC-100 Form will be filed by the City to the CA DIR, 4LEAF is required to notify an authorized Apprenticeship Committee through submittal of a DAS-140 form.  We are then required to make an official request to an 
authorized Apprenticeship Committee for an apprentice by submitting a DAS-142 form.  We are not assured the apprenticeship committee will be able to provide a suitable / qualified apprentice for the project. Per the apprenticeship requirements, the hours worked by the apprentice must be in a ratio of 1:5 for 
apprentice to journeyman hours.  Hours are included as a placeholder in the event that an apprenticeship for a public works inspector is required and dispatched by the apprenticeship committee. We have assumed the public works apprentice assigned to the project will be classified as a Period 1 Apprentice as defined 
by the DIR's Wage Determination dated 8/17.  In the event that a higher classification apprentice is assigned to the project, we will contact the City to request a change order for this line item. 
(c) 4LEAF staff will be supplied with typical tools of the trade to perform their daily tasks (e.g. cell phone, laptop computer, and PPE).  
(f) Per email correspondence with the City (5/10/19), the estimated construction schedule defines the duration for the entire project between 9/3/19 and 5/20/21 (21 months). Per the contractor's draft schedule provided by the City, the Construction Phase of the Coyote Point PG&E task (Task 2) will begin September 
3, 2019.  It is assumed the construction inspector for the Coyote Point Levee and Pump Station will work 410 WD for 8 hours/day and AND 93 WD at 8 hours/day at Saturday (OT) rate between September 3, 2019 and July 29, 2020 AND September 1, 2020 and May 20, 2021. The contractor's draft schedule includes 120 
days of float.  Per email correspondence with the City (7/12/19), City requested removal of float days from the 4LEAF team's cost proosal.  It is assumed the construction inspector for the Poplar Pump Station (Task 5) will work 160 WD for 8 hours /day at regular time rate and 32 WD at 8 hours/day at Saturday (OT) 
rate between 2/10/2020 and 9/23/2020. It is assumed 4LEAF's Construction Manager will work 530 WD for 8 hours per day.  Does not include any allowance for any weekday overrtime, nighttime, Sunday, or holiday work.  If Contractor's schedule indicates weekday overtime, nighttime, Sunday, or holiday work is 
necessary, hours provided in this estimate may be adjusted and the requirements for these hours will be billed in accordance with California Prevailing Wage Law. If construction duration extends past 21 months, or Contractor's schedule indicates a different number of hours per working day or additional weekend or 
holiday work will be necessary, 4LEAF will submit a budget amendment request to the City and hours will be billed in accordance with 4LEAF's 2019 Standard Fee Schedule.
(j) See detailed cost estimate provided by MIG, dated 5/14/19.  
(i) See detailed cost estimate provided by CTS. 
(g) Per City meeting on 4/21/19, it is assumed the construction durations of the Coyote Point and Poplar Pump Stations will be 14 months,  It is assumed 4LEAF's Electrical / Structural Inspector will be available 30% of the time during the 14 month duration for construction of the Coyote Point and Poplar Pump 
Stations.  If Contractor's schedule indicates the duration of construction for the two pump stations extends past 14 months, 4LEAF will submit a budget amendment request to the City and hours will be billed in accordance with 4LEAF's 2019 Standard Fee Schedule.
1 of 1
431 of 574

--- page 432 ---
Cost Estimate 
The budget for the environmental consulting services is summarized in the Cost Table Summary below. A 
detailed breakdown of labor allocation per task is attached in the Detailed Cost Table following this letter. The 
cost proposal is based on our understanding of the project and our assumptions. If unforeseen conditions are 
encountered, such as an issue with potential impacts to a special-status species or other protected resource 
that requires more than the estimated amount of time to address, we will notify you immediately to discuss 
modifications to the scope of services and/or project fees.  
This is an estimate; we will bill only the time and expenses spent. We will not exceed this amount without prior 
approval from you, and any future request for additional funds will be substantiated with a written explanation 
of tasks and estimated budget.  
Cost Table Summary 
Tasks 
Cost 
1. Agency Coordination
$6,900 
2. Preconstruction Activities
$33,005 
3. Construction Monitoring
$288,080 
4. Project Administration
$39,150 
Labor Cost 
$367,135 
Expenses 
$19,847 
Total Cost 
$386,982 
Assumptions 
1. Field Assistance. We have assumed that the construction contractor will flag the project area and that MIG
will be present to assist with this effort to ensure sensitive resources are avoided. This scope of work
assumes that flagging can be conducted at the same time as the pre-construction surveys; therefore, an
additional site visit will not be required for this task. An additional site visit can be conducted under an
amended budget.
2. Access. This scope of work assumes that all permission for site access will be provided by the City.
3. Project Plans. This scope of work does not include preparation or review of the Dewatering Plan,
Stormwater Pollution and Erosion Control Plan, and Site Plans.
4. Additional Biological Measures. This scope of work assumes that no additional biological measures are
included in the San Francisco Bay Conservation and Development Commission (BCDC) permit or any other
project permits that have not been issued for the project at the time this scope of work was prepared.
5. Agency Coordination. This scope of work assumes that no more than 40 hours will be required for agency
coordination prior to and during construction.
6. Revegetation and Revegetation Monitoring. The Request for Proposal (RFP) was not clear if post-
construction tasks, including revegetation monitoring, should be included in this scope of work. In addition, the
RWQCB WQC indicates a Mitigation and Monitoring Plan was prepared for the project that was not included
in the RFP attachments. As a result, this scope of work does not include preparation of a Mitigation and
Monitoring Plan or implementation of revegetation monitoring in accordance with the plan. MIG has extensive
experience providing these services and can provide them under an amended budget.
7. Preconstruction Surveys. The cost estimate allows for each pre-construction survey to occur on two
separate days to accommodate the two separate projects. If one or more complex biological issues arise from
the pre-construction surveys such as a bat roost is found in a tree or structures marked for removal; or an
active bird nest cannot be avoided by implementing the designated buffer, then a budget augment may be
required to address this/these issue(s). In addition, if construction remains inactive for more than 15 days
during the avian breeding season, a budget augment may be required to conduct additional nesting surveys in
accordance with Condition 2.19 of the CDFW LSAA.
8. Environmental Training. This scope of work assumes only two trainings (one training for each project) will
be performed by MIG and that each training can be conducted in one 4-hour field visit (including travel time).
Additional trainings for new project personnel can be provided under an amended budget.
432 of 574

--- page 433 ---
9. Work Window. This scope of work assumes that construction work within the creek on the southern side of
the Bayfront levee and/or waters of the State will be restricted to the dry season (April 15 to October 31), as
required by CDFW LSAA Condition 2.1 and RWQCB WQC Regulatory and Compliance Work Window
Condition 6.1.6. This scope of work also assumes that work on the San Francisco Bay side of the levee will
be restricted to low tide when there is low or no flow, in accordance with CDFW LSAA Condition 2.7 and
RWQCB WQC Regulatory and Compliance Work Window Condition 6.1.8.
10. Biological Monitoring. The scope of work assumes the project will occur 5 8-hour days a week for a total
of 18 months for both projects. However, this cost estimate assumes no more than 42 8-hour days (336 
hours) and no more than 318 4-hour (1,272 hours) days will be required for a biological monitor. As a result, 
this scope of work assumes no more than 1,608 hours could be required for biological construction 
monitoring. Additional time has been added for organization and completion of the daily monitoring reports. If 
the project takes longer to construct, a budget augment will be needed for additional days of monitoring. 
11.Native American Monitoring. This scope of work does not include assistance from a Native American 
monitor, as required by USACE NWP Special Condition 3. This service can be provided under an amended 
budget. 
12. Fish Relocation. This scope of work assumes that the cofferdam for each project will take one day to install
(CDFW LSAA Condition 2.26); therefore, only two 8-hour days have been included for fish relocation. This 
scope of work also assumes electrofishing will not be required to move fish from the dewatered area.  
13. Bat Survey. This scope of work assumes that bat surveys can be conducted at each project site during one
8-hour day (16 hours). This scope of work assumes that no bats or evidence of bats will be observed; 
therefore, additional measures will not be required. Additional measures can be implemented under an 
amended budget.  
14. Nesting Bird Survey. This scope of work assumes that nesting bird surveys can be conducted at each
project site during one 8-hour day (16 hours). This scope of work assumes that construction will not lapse for 
more than 15 days; therefore, only one nesting bird survey will be required for each project site. This scope of 
work also assumes that the no disturbance buffer can be implemented and consultation with CDFW to reduce 
the buffers will not be required. Finally, the budget assumes that any additional follow-up monitoring of the 
nests can conducted during the daily inspections (Task 4). Additional surveys and/or monitoring can be 
implemented under an amended budget. 
15. Rare Plant Survey. Based on a review of the project permits, this scope of work assumes that Davidson’s
bushmallow is the only plant expected to be present in the project area. Therefore, MIG will conduct a focused 
floristic survey within the blooming period for Davidson’s bushmallow, which is June-January. This scope of 
work also assumes that special-status plants can be avoided; therefore, additional measures to protect or 
compensate for special-status plants will not be required. Additional measures can be implemented under an 
amended budget. 
16. Ridgway’s Rail. This scope of work assumes that work on the outfall structure and any other structures on
the San Francisco Bay side of the project area can be confined to the period of September 1 to October 31, 
which is outside the Ridgway’s rail breeding season. As a result, protocol-level Ridgway’s rail surveys will not 
be required. In addition, this scope of work assumes that rails will not be routinely observed on-site outside 
the breeding season; therefore, a species avoidance plan in accordance with CDFW LSAA Condition 2.6 will 
not be required. These services can be provided under an amended budget.   
17. Expense Estimates. The expense estimate is based on estimated mileage for round trips from our
Berkeley office to the project site for our biologists. All expense estimates are typical estimates; actual 
expenses are billed at cost and may exceed or be less than the amounts shown.  
18. Permit Applications. The scope does not include assistance with permit amendments or extensions. In
addition, this scope of work does not include assistance with mitigation negotiations or implementation. This 
assistance can be provided under an amended budget. 
19. Post-Construction Report. This scope of work assumes that the City and/or contractor will provide the as-
built drawings and any other technical information needed for the post-construction report. 
20. Document Revisions. This scope of work assumes only one round of review and revisions will be required
to finalize deliverables. 
21. Meetings. One weekly phone meeting for a total of 18 months (i.e., the anticipated duration of project
activities) are included in this scope. If additional meetings are required, these will be subject to additional 
compensation. 
433 of 574

--- page 434 ---
Thank you for contacting MIG regarding this scope of work. We look forwarding to continuing to work with you 
on this project. Should you have any questions regarding this proposal, or if we may be of further service, 
please contact me at your convenience (lauram@migcom.com; 415.246.7397). 
Sincerely, 
Laura Moran 
Principal | Environmental Practice Lead | Director of Ecosystem Restoration Services 
City of San Mateo
North Shoreview Flood Improvement Project
San Mateo, California
Revised 7/17/19
Moran
Parravano
Huff
Mohammed
Tuttle/Moran
GIS Specialist
Support
Total Hours
Total Cost
Task
Director
Sr. Project 
Manager II
Sr.Biologist II
Biologist III
Biologist II
GIS Specialist
Support
rate per hour
225
185
165
130
95
95
90
Task 1. Agency Coordination 
5
35
40
$6,900
Task 2. Pre-Construction Activities
Coordination Meetings (6@3hr/mtg)
18
18
36
$7,020
Document Review
4
20
24
$4,200
 Worker Education Program
1
2
23
2
28
$2,920
Flagging/Fencing and Photodocumentation
0
$0
Permit Binder Preparation
1
2
20
6
29
$2,995
Ridgway's Rail Survey
1
2
16
19
$2,635
Nesting Bird Survey
1
2
26
29
$3,935
Bat Survey
1
2
26
29
$3,935
Focused Plant Survey
1
26
2
29
$5,365
Total Task 2
28
26
50
68
43
0
8
446
$33,005
Task 3. Biological Monitoring 
Biological Monitoring (430 total days, 48 8hr days)
384
1590
1974
$200,970
Saturday Monitoring (Blended Rate 88 4hr days)
352
352
$58,080
Float/Rain Delay Contingency (60 8hr days)
0
0
0
$0
Client/Contractor Coordination
26
38
48
112
$18,360
Monitoring Report
5
15
50
6
76
$10,670
Total Task 3
31
0
405
482
1590
6
0
2514
$288,080
Task 5. Project Administration
70
120
40
230
$39,150
Total Labor Hours
134
26
610
550
1633
6
48
3007
Total Labor Cost
$30,150
$4,810
$100,650
$71,500
$155,135
$570
$4,320
$367,135
MIG|TRA Expenses
Mileage/Travel (590 RT 58 miles @ $0.58/mi)
$19,847 
Total Cost
$386,982
434 of 574

--- page 435 ---
PRELIMINARY ESTIMATE: INSPECTIONS & TESTING
02/13/19
P15724
CITY OF SAN MATEO C/O 4LEAF, INC.
POPLAR AVENUE PUMP STATION REPLACEMENT
SAN MATEO, CA
ITEM:
I
ESTIMATED
ESTIMATED
UNIT 
ESTIMATED
ONSITE TESTING & INSPECTIONS
DAYS
HOURS
PRICE
TOTAL
CONCRETE 
5
8
$125
$5,000
5
8
$125
$5,000
5
8
$125
$5,000
5
8
$125
$5,000
4
8
$125
$4,000
5
8
$125
$5,000
2
8
$125
$2,000
MASONRY - LEVEL 1
3
8
$125
$3,000
3
8
$125
$3,000
STRUCTURAL STEEL
3
8
$130
$3,120
3
8
$125
$3,000
SEISMIC ASSEMBLY - WOOD
2
8
$125
$2,000
2
8
$125
$2,000
MISC FIELD TESTING SERVICES
EPOXY BOLTS - INSTALL OBSERVATION
2
8
$125
$2,000
EPOXY BOLTS - PROOF LOADING/PULL TESTING (PORTAL TO PORTAL)
2
8
$125
$2,000
EXPANSION ANCHOR - INSTALL OBSERVATION
2
8
$125
$2,000
EXPANSION ANCHOR - TORQUE TESTING (PORTAL TO PORTAL)
2
8
$125
$2,000
4
1.5
$125
$750
4
72
$0.58
$167
GEOTECHNICAL SERVICES
5
8
$125
$5,000
5
8
$125
$5,000
RETAINING WALL BACKFILL
5
8
$125
$5,000
5
8
$125
$5,000
FOOTING INSPECTION (MICROPILES)
8
8
$175
$11,200
20
1.5
$125
$3,750
20
72
$0.58
$835
Preliminary Sub-Total of Onsite Testing & Inspection (approx.)
$91,822
ITEM:
II
ESTIMATED
ESTIMATED
UNIT 
ESTIMATED
OFFSITE TESTING & INSPECTIONS
DAYS
HOURS
PRICE
TOTAL
5
8
$130
$5,200
2
8
$125
$2,000
Preliminary Sub-Total of Offsite Testing & Inspection (approx.)
$7,200
ITEM:
III
ESTIMATED
UNIT 
ESTIMATED
LABORATORY TESTING & ENGINEERING
UNITS/HOURS
PRICE
TOTAL
116
$40
$4,640
LIGHTWEIGHT CONCRETE COMPRESSION TESTS
50
$60
$3,000
5
$100
$500
3
$100
$300
12
$50
$600
9
$50
$450
5
$375
$1,875
MOISURE CONTENT (ASTM D2216)
10
$100
$1,000
5
$350
$1,750
10
$300
$3,000
225
$26
$5,850
2
$300
$600
3
$300
$900
1
$300
$300
CERTIFIED PAYROLL 
10
$100
$1,000
Preliminary Subtotal of Laboratory Testing & Engineering (approx.)
$25,765
Preliminary Estimated Fees
$124,787
Project Administration 10%
$12,479
Total Preliminary Estimated Fees
$137,266
* Steel shop price based on work being done in Northern California in one shop and one shift. If work is performed at night a 12.5% differential will be charged.
A 10% project administration fee will be charged monthly per invoice.
No contingency is budgeted by CTS for uncontrollable overtime, union or prevailing wage increases and unforeseen requirements that may arise in the
specifications, as well as for work over the estimated hours. Owner should budget appropriate amount for budgetary purposes.
Estimate based on plans by Schaff & Wheeler, dated 10/5/16. No geotechnical report or construction schedule was available at the time this estimate was prepared.  See attached fee schedule for basis of charges. 
The liability of Construction Testing Services (CTS) is limited to CTS's contract value.  
Estimate includes portal to portal travel time for nuclear gauge transport from laboratory per requirements of the CA Radiological Health Branch.
PORTAL TO PORTAL TRAVEL TIME - PROOF LOAD/PULL TESTING/TORQUE TESTING EQUIPMENT
PORTAL TO PORTAL MILEAGE - PROOF LOAD/PULL TESTING/TORQUE TESTING EQUIPMENT
ELEVATED DECK POURS (REBAR/CONCRETE)
DATE:
PROPOSAL No.:
CLIENT: 
PROJECT: 
LOCATION: 
MAT SLAB
FOOTINGS/GRADE BEAMS
WALLS & COLUMNS
SLAB ON GRADE
OTHER - MISC CONCRETE
CELL - CRETE INSPECTION
MASONRY UNIT PLACEMENT
GROUT PLACEMENT
FIELD WELDING/UT/MT
PORTAL TO PORTAL TRAVEL TIME FOR NUCLEAR GAUGE USE
PORTAL TO PORTAL MILEAGE FOR NUCLEAR GAUGE USE
MISC STEEL/STAIRS - PERIODIC INSPECTION
SHEAR WALL NAILING/FRAMING
ROOF/FLOOR DIAPHRAGM NAILING
BUILDING PAD
TRENCH BACKFILL
SITEWORK SUBGRADE AND/OR BASEROCK
PLASTIC INDEX
STEEL SHOP - DAY SHIFT *
MISCELLANEOUS STEEL/STAIRS *
CONCRETE COMPRESSION TESTS
MASONRY PRISM COMPRESSION TESTS - PRE CONSTRUCTION 
MASONRY PRISM COMPRESSION TESTS - PRODUCTION 
MASONRY GROUT COMPRESSION TESTS 
MASONRY MORTAR COMPRESSION TESTS
PARTICLE SIZE ANALYSIS (ASTM D422) W/O HYDROMETER
COMPACTION CURVES
SAMPLE PICK-UPS
WPS REVIEW
MIX DESIGN REVIEW 
FINAL LETTER
435 of 574

--- page 436 ---
PRELIMINARY ESTIMATE: INSPECTIONS & TESTING
02/13/19
P15724
CITY OF SAN MATEO C/O 4LEAF, INC.
COYOTE POINT LEVEE IMPROVEMENTS AND PUMP STATION REPLACEMENT
SAN MATEO, CA
ITEM:
I
ESTIMATED
ESTIMATED
UNIT 
ESTIMATED
ONSITE TESTING & INSPECTIONS
DAYS
HOURS
PRICE
TOTAL
CONCRETE 
6
8
$125
$6,000
9
8
$125
$9,000
12
8
$125
$12,000
6
8
$125
$6,000
4
8
$125
$4,000
5
8
$125
$5,000
2
8
$125
$2,000
MASONRY - LEVEL 1
3
8
$125
$3,000
3
8
$125
$3,000
STRUCTURAL STEEL
3
8
$130
$3,120
3
8
$125
$3,000
SEISMIC ASSEMBLY - WOOD
2
8
$125
$2,000
2
8
$125
$2,000
MISC FIELD TESTING SERVICES
EPOXY BOLTS - INSTALL OBSERVATION
2
8
$125
$2,000
EPOXY BOLTS - PROOF LOADING/PULL TESTING (PORTAL TO PORTAL)
2
8
$125
$2,000
EXPANSION ANCHOR - INSTALL OBSERVATION
2
8
$125
$2,000
EXPANSION ANCHOR - TORQUE TESTING (PORTAL TO PORTAL)
2
8
$125
$2,000
4
1.5
$125
$750
4
72
$0.58
$167
GEOTECHNICAL SERVICES
5
8
$125
$5,000
SUBGRADE AND ROUGH GRADING
5
8
$125
$5,000
5
8
$125
$5,000
RETAINING WALL BACKFILL
5
8
$125
$5,000
5
8
$125
$5,000
3
8
$125
$3,000
3
8
$125
$3,000
1
8
$125
$1,000
FOOTING INSPECTION (MICROPILES)
8
8
$150
$9,600
32
1.5
$125
$6,000
32
72
$0.58
$1,336
Preliminary Sub-Total of Onsite Testing & Inspection (approx.)
$117,973
ITEM:
II
ESTIMATED
ESTIMATED
UNIT 
ESTIMATED
OFFSITE TESTING & INSPECTIONS
DAYS
HOURS
PRICE
TOTAL
5
8
$130
$5,200
2
8
$125
$2,000
Preliminary Sub-Total of Offsite Testing & Inspection (approx.)
$7,200
ITEM:
III
ESTIMATED
UNIT 
ESTIMATED
LABORATORY TESTING & ENGINEERING
UNITS/HOURS
PRICE
TOTAL
168
$40
$6,720
LIGHTWEIGHT CONCRETE COMPRESSION TESTS
50
$60
$3,000
5
$100
$500
3
$100
$300
12
$50
$600
9
$50
$450
10
$375
$3,750
MOISURE CONTENT (ASTM D2216)
20
$100
$2,000
10
$350
$3,500
10
$300
$3,000
1
$300
$300
298
$26
$7,748
2
$300
$600
3
$300
$900
1
$300
$300
CERTIFIED PAYROLL 
10
$100
$1,000
Preliminary Subtotal of Laboratory Testing & Engineering (approx.)
$34,668
Preliminary Estimated Fees
$159,841
Project Administration 10%
$15,984
Total Preliminary Estimated Fees
$175,825
* Steel shop price based on work being done in Northern California in one shop and one shift. If work is performed at night a 12.5% differential will be charged.
A 10% project administration fee will be charged monthly per invoice.
No contingency is budgeted by CTS for uncontrollable overtime, union or prevailing wage increases and unforeseen requirements that may arise in the
specifications, as well as for work over the estimated hours. Owner should budget appropriate amount for budgetary purposes.
Estimate based on 95% plans by Schaff & Wheeler, dated 9/30/16. No geotechnical report or construction schedule was available at the time this estimate was prepared.  See attached fee schedule for basis of charges. 
The liability of Construction Testing Services (CTS) is limited to CTS's contract value.  
Estimate includes portal to portal travel time for nuclear gauge transport from laboratory per requirements of the CA Radiological Health Branch.
PORTAL TO PORTAL MILEAGE FOR NUCLEAR GAUGE USE
PARTICLE SIZE ANALYSIS (ASTM D422) W/O HYDROMETER
PLASTIC INDEX
LEVEE SUBGRADE
LEVEE BASEROCK
A/C COMPACTION
PORTAL TO PORTAL TRAVEL TIME FOR NUCLEAR GAUGE USE
PORTAL TO PORTAL TRAVEL TIME - PROOF LOAD/PULL TESTING/TORQUE TESTING EQUIPMENT
PORTAL TO PORTAL MILEAGE - PROOF LOAD/PULL TESTING/TORQUE TESTING EQUIPMENT
MASONRY UNIT PLACEMENT
FIELD WELDING/UT/MT
DATE:
PROPOSAL No.:
CLIENT: 
PROJECT: 
LOCATION: 
MASONRY GROUT COMPRESSION TESTS 
STEEL SHOP - DAY SHIFT *
MISCELLANEOUS STEEL/STAIRS *
CONCRETE COMPRESSION TESTS
MASONRY PRISM COMPRESSION TESTS - PRE CONSTRUCTION 
MASONRY PRISM COMPRESSION TESTS - PRODUCTION 
COMPACTION CURVES
A/C - THEORETICAL MAX DENSITY 
SAMPLE PICK-UPS
WPS REVIEW
MIX DESIGN REVIEW 
FINAL LETTER
MASONRY MORTAR COMPRESSION TESTS
BUILDING PAD
TRENCH BACKFILL
SITEWORK SUBGRADE AND/OR BASEROCK
MISC STEEL/STAIRS - PERIODIC INSPECTION
OTHER - MISC CONCRETE
MAT SLAB
FOOTINGS/GRADE BEAMS
WALLS & COLUMNS
SLAB ON GRADE
ELEVATED DECK POURS (REBAR/CONCRETE)
CELL - CRETE INSPECTION
SHEAR WALL NAILING/FRAMING
ROOF/FLOOR DIAPHRAGM NAILING
GROUT PLACEMENT
436 of 574

--- page 437 ---
Standard
Discounted
* FIELD INSPECTION AND LABORATORY SERVICE
Rate/Hour
Rate/Hour
Steel
$218.00
$125.00
Nondestructive - UT, MT, PT
$223.00
$130.00
Steel Visual/UT Combination 
$223.00
$130.00
Concrete ACI
$218.00
$125.00
Concrete ICC
$218.00
$125.00
Masonry
$218.00
$125.00
Fireproofing
$218.00
Soil Technician w/Nuclear Gauge and/or Sand Cone (portal-to-portal)
$218.00
$125.00
Asphalt Technician (portal-to-portal)
$218.00
Shoring/Soldier Piers
$218.00
Roofing & Waterproofing
$218.00
Multi-Disciplined Inspector
$218.00
Inspector Requiring G1 Pay Grade
$253.00
Specialty Inspector or Where Formal Certification is Required
$218.00
Field Inspector with Special Enhancement 
$218.00
Laboratory Technician
$218.00
Technician Typist 
$218.00
**PROFESSIONAL ENGINEERING SERVICES
Principal Engineer (Civil/Structural)
$353.00
Geotechnical Engineer 
$303.00
Consulting Engineer (Civil/Structural)
$273.00
Associate Engineer, Licensed 
$248.00
Project Manager
$218.00
Staff Engineer
$218.00
$175.00
Field Supervision
$193.00
ASNT Level III
$258.00
Drafting
$153.00
Quality Control Manager
QOR
SPECIAL SERVICES
Portable and Mobile Laboratories, NDT and Soils 
QOR
* Epoxy Bolt/Expansion Anchor - Installation Observation 
$218.00
$125.00
* Epoxy Bolt/Expansion Anchor Proof Load Testing (portal-to-portal)
$218.00
$125.00
* Coring, 1 Person (including equipment) (portal-to-portal)
$278.00
* Coring, 2 Persons (including equipment) (portal-to-portal)
$443.00
* Asphalt Coring (portal-to-portal) 
$303.00
Project Research 
QOR
Ultrasonic Testing for Non-Metallic Materials 
QOR
Pavement Rehabilitation Analysis Using Deflections 
QOR
Roof Moisture Survey 
QOR
Soil Drilling Equipment
QOR
Geotechnical Site Investigations/Foundation Reports
QOR
Pachometer, Schmidt Hammer, Windsor Probe, Skidmore - Equipment Fee $115/Day (portal-to-portal)
$288.00
Floor Flatness Testing FF/FL - Equipment Fee $115/Day (portal-to-portal)
$288.00
Measuring Moisture Vapor Emission Rate (Calcium Chloride) - $55/Kit (portal-to-portal)
ASTM F1869
$288.00
Relative Humidity Testing - $75/Kit  (portal-to-portal)
ASTM F2170
$288.00
Ferroscan - Equipment Fee $115/day (portal-to-portal)
$288.00
GPR - Equipment Fee $115/day (portal-to-portal)
$343.00
Administration, Secretarial, Special Projects, Notary, Certified Payroll
$163.00
$100.00
Concrete/Grout/Mortar Mix Design Review (less than 48 hours notice - $500)
$345.00
$300.00
Welding Procedure Review (less than 48 hours notice - $500)
$345.00
$300.00
Welder Qualification Test Record (WQTR)
$250.00
DSA Interim Reports
$178.00
Geotechnical Pad Letter (less than 48 hours notice - $550)
$345.00
Final Letter (less than 48 hours notice - $550)
$345.00
$300.00
EXPERT WITNESS TESTIMONY 
Court appearance, per day 
$2,420.00
Court appearance, per half day 
$1,210.00
2019 FEE SCHEDULE - P15724 2/13/19
PERSONNEL FEES AND BASIS OF CHARGES
INSPECTIONS, ENGINEERING & SPECIAL SERVICES
* Field inspection and laboratory technician services will be billed in accordance with minimums shown on Basis of Charges.  
**Professional engineering services will be billed in two hour increments.
INSPECTING
TESTING 
ENGINEERING
All fees subject to Basis of Charges
437 of 574

--- page 438 ---
INSPECTING
TESTING 
ENGINEERING
GENERAL
MINIMUM HOURLY CHARGES – INSPECTION
Technician personnel and the following minimum charges are contractual commitment:
One-half day or less
4 Hours
Over one-half day
8 Hours
Show-up time (less than 2 hours notice = 4 hour charge)
2 Hours
WORKING HOURS AND PREMIUM TIME
Regular workday is the first 8 hours between 6:00 am and 6:00 pm Monday through Friday. Premium time is as follows:
Overtime, Weekdays and Saturdays (first 8 hours)
1.5 x quoted hourly rate
Overtime Saturdays (over 8 hours) and Sundays (first 8 hours)
2 x quoted hourly rate
Overtime Sundays (over 8 hours) and Holidays
3 x quoted hourly rate
Shift differential, swing and graveyard - 
   (Work performed between 2:00 pm and 4:00 am)
12.5%/hour additional to base or quoted rate.
MISCELLANEOUS CHARGES - Only Where Applicable
Notary Services Fee
$40.00/each
Facsimile Charges. Plus $1.00/page (n/c for cover page)
$7.00/minimum
Wireless Router/Data Card for Jobsite Internet
$135.00/day
iPad Monthly Rental Fee
$100.00/month
Electronic Reporting Fees/Subscriptions (PlanGrid, BIM, etc.)
At Cost
Parking Fees
At Cost
Air Travel
Cost Plus 10%
Outside Services
Cost Plus 20%
 
Subsistence (per union contract)
$130.00/day
Mileage
Standard Federal Rate
Sample Pickup 
$26.00/each
Weekend Sample Pickup
$105.00/each
Project Administration
10% of Monthly Invoice
Samples Made by Others: Concrete Cylinders
$130 + Test 
Samples Made by Others: All Other Tests
$55.00 + Test
Laboratory Sample Witness Fee
$130.00
Laboratory Sample Storage Fee (per sample)
$120.00
EZ Cure Boxes (Thermostatically Controlled Curing Boxes)
QOR
Returned Check Fee
$150.00
TESTS
INSURANCE
PAYMENT
BASIS OF CHARGES
Testing fees shown include normal time for performing test. Samples requiring special preparation will be charged at the laboratory technician rate. Fees for tests not listed will be 
quoted upon request. There will be a minimum charge of $100.00 for any engineering report. Please note some tests maybe tested by subconsultants. Samples delivered to the 
laboratory after 3:00pm or samples needing results within 24 hours will incur a 50% mark-up.
The liability of Construction Testing Services (CTS) is limited to CTS's contract value.  
Invoices will be submitted monthly or bimonthly for services performed during the preceding month and are payable on receipt. Interest of 1.5% per month (but not exceeding the 
maximum rate allowable by law) will be payable on any amounts not paid within 30 days, payment thereafter to be applied first to accrued interest and then to the principle unpaid 
amount. Attorney’s fees or other costs incurred in collecting any delinquent amount shall be paid by client. Visa, MasterCard and American Express payments are accepted 
however fees will apply. Visa and MasterCard payments require an additional 3% on top of the amount of the invoice being paid. American Express payments require an additional 
4% on top of the amount of the invoice being paid.
Fees for tests and inspection include cost of technician, normal equipment and regular reports. Engineering services will be charged at applicable rates and will require travel and 
mileage charges for equipment transport and storage per code (portal to portal) from the nearest CTS laboratory. Soils testing with nuclear gauge and/or sand cone equipment and 
inspections requiring equipment will require applicable travel and mileage charges for equipment transport and storage per code (portal-to-portal) from the nearest CTS laboratory. 
Fees for special projects, services overseas, or elsewhere in the United States, will be quoted on request. With prior notification to Client; charges are subject to change at any 
time. Construction Testing Services reserves the right to adjust the rates quoted in this contract based upon any Union or prevailing wage increases and/or changes in any industry 
requirements.
All fees subject to Basis of Charges
438 of 574

--- page 439 ---
INSPECTING
TESTING 
ENGINEERING
Standard
Discounted
CONCRETE
Rate/Each
Rate/Each
Compressive Strength of Cylindrical Concrete Specimens (6x12)
ASTM C39
$84.00
Compressive Strength of Cylindrical Concrete Specimens (4x8)
ASTM C39
$84.00
$40.00
Compressive Strength of Cylindrical Concrete Specimens (Over 8000 PSI)
ASTM C39
$143.00
Cylinder molds.  6” x 12” and 4" x 8"
ASTM C470
$72.00
Compressive Strength of Lightweight Insulating Concrete
ASTM C495
$94.00
Obtaining and Testing Sawed Beams and Drilled Cores of Concrete (Cores)
ASTM C42
$121.00
Flexural Toughness of Fiber Reinforced Concrete (Round Panel)
ASTM C1550
$440.00
Flexural Strength of Concrete (Using Simple Beam with Third-Point Loading)
ASTM C78
$308.00
Flex Beams per Caltrans Test Methods
CT523 and CT524
$308.00
Length Change of Hardened Hydraulic-Cement Mortar and Concrete (Shrinkage, 1 Sample)
ASTM C157
$150.00
Shotcrete Nozzleman Qualification Letter (Per Nozzleman, Per Position)
ACI 506, ASTM C42 and C1140 $440.00
Shotcrete Pre-Qualification Cores (Compression and Visual)
ACI 506, ASTM C42 and C1140 $110.00
Shotcrete Production Cores 
ASTM C1140
$110.00
Coefficient of Thermal Expansion
AASHTO T336
$535.00
Determining Density of Structural Lightweight Concrete (Cylinders)
ASTM C567
$405.00
Standard Specification for Concrete Made by Volumetric Batching and Mixing
ASTM C685
$965.00
Cement Quality Sampling
CBC 2010
$667.00
Physical Testing of Gypsum, Gypsum Plasters and Gypsum Concrete
ASTM C472
$55.00
Splitting Tensile Strength of Cylindrical Concrete Specimens
ASTM C496
$253.00
Static Modulus of Elasticity and Poisson's Ratio of Concrete in Compression
ASTM C469
$215.00
Grab Sample, Sealing and Storing in a Humidity and Temperature Controlled Room
CBC  
$150.00
Density of Hydraulic Cement
ASTM C188
$195.00
Testing of Controlled Low Strength Material (CLSM) Test Cylinders
ASTM D4832
$150.00
$60.00
GFRC Pull Test
PCI
$374.00
GFRC Flexural Test
PCI
$374.00
Foaming Agents for Use in Producing Cellular Concrete Using Preformed Foam (Cell-Crete)
ASTM C796
$525.00
MASONRY
Compressive Testing of Grout (Masonry)
ASTM C1019
$121.00
$50.00
Compressive Strength of Hydraulic Cement Mortars Using 2" Cube Specimens
ASTM C109
$121.00
Compressive Strength of Masonry Prisms
ASTM C1314
$187.00
$100.00
Testing Concrete Masonry Units and Related Units (Core Compression)
CBC 2105A.4
$187.00
Compressive Strength of Molded Masonry Mortar Cylinders and Cubes (2" Sample)
ASTM C780 A7.6
$121.00
Testing Concrete Masonry Units (CMU) and Related Units (Full Unit)
ASTM C140
$184.00
Linear Drying Shrinkage of Concrete Masonry Units (Per Unit)
ASTM C426
$270.00
Masonry Core Shear Testing
CBC 2105A.4
$270.00
Testing Concrete Masonry Units (Absorption, Moisture Content, Unit Weight)
ASTM C140
$340.00
Brick and Clay Tile (modulus of rupture, compression, saturation coefficient, suction rate, 
efflorescence)*
ASTM C67
$1,000.00
Mortar Molds. 2” x 4”. Single Use
$121.00
Mortar or Grout, Stored and Cured, Not Tested (Including Mold)
$121.00
AGGREGATES (SOILS AND CONCRETE)
Determining Sieve Analysis of Fine and Coarse Aggregates (Coarse Only)
CT202/ASTM C136
$220.00
Sieve Analysis of Fine and Coarse Aggregates (Fine Only)
CT202/ASTM C136
$295.00
Sieve Analysis of Fine and Coarse Aggregates (Wash Included)
CT202/ASTM C117
$370.00
Sieve Analysis of Fine and Coarse Aggregates (200 Wash Only)
ASTM C117
$220.00
Evaluating Cleanness of Coarse Aggregate
CT227
$370.00
Soundness of Aggregates by Use of Sodium Sulfate or Magnesium Sulfate
ASTM C88/CT214
$275.00
Unit Weight of Aggregate
CT212
$158.00
Clay Lumps and Friable Particles in Aggregates
ASTM C142
$215.00
Flat Particles, Elongated Particles or Flat and Elongated Particles in Coarse Aggregate
ASTM D4791/CT235
$370.00
Organic Impurities in Fine Aggregates for Concrete
CT213/ASTM C40
$336.00
Density, Relative Density(Specific Gravity), and Absorption of Coarse Aggregate
ASTM C127/CT206
$336.00
Density, Relative Density(Specific Gravity), and Absorption of Fine Aggregate
ASTM C128/CT207 
$336.00
Resistance to Degradation of Small Size Coarse Aggregate by Abrasion and Impact in the Los 
Angeles Machine
ASTM C131(535) and C211
$535.00
Percentage of Crushed Particles/Standard Test Method for Determining the Percentage of Fractured 
Particles in Coarse Aggregate
ASTM D5821/CT205
$405.00
Uncompacted Void Content of Fine Aggregate (as Influenced by Particle Shape, Surface Texture, 
and Grading) 
ASTM C1252/AASHTO T304A
$405.00
Sand Equivalent Value of Soils and Fine Aggregate
ASTM D2419/CT217
$270.00
Durability Index (Fine)
ASTM D3744/CT229
$405.00
Durability Index (Coarse)
ASTM D3744/CT229
$405.00
Durability Index (Fine and Coarse)
ASTM D 3744/CT229
$405.00
Lightweight Particles in Aggregate
ASTM C123/AASHTO T113
QOR 
Resistance of Rock to Wetting and Drying
CRD-C169
$590.00
*Unusual sample preparation for brick specimen will be charged at the established hourly rate.
CONCRETE AND MASONRY TESTS
All fees subject to Basis of Charges
439 of 574

--- page 440 ---
INSPECTING
TESTING 
ENGINEERING
Standard
Discounted
SOILS
Rate/Each
Rate/Each
Direct Shear Test of Soils Under Consolidated Drained Conditions
ASTM D3080
$535.00
Caltrans Corrosivity Package
$505.00
Determining Field and Laboratory Resistivity and pH Measurements for Soil and Water
CT643
QOR
Soils and Waters for Sulfate Content
CT417
QOR
Soils and Waters for Chloride Content
CT422
QOR
Particle-Size Analysis of Soils (with Hydrometer)
ASTM D422
$590.00
$375.00
Pore Water Extraction and Determination of the Soluble Salt Content of Soils by Refractometer
ASTM D4542
$625.00
Standard Test Method for Particle-Size Analysis of Soils (without Hydrometer)
ASTM D422
$535.00
Liquid Limit, Plastic Limit, and Plasticity Index of Soils
ASTM D4318/CT204
$535.00
$350.00
Laboratory Compaction Characteristics of Soil Using Modified/Standard Effort
ASTM D1557/D698
$502.00
$300.00
Hydrometer Only
ASTM D422
$535.00
pH of Soils
ASTM D4972
$467.00
Relative Compaction of Untreated and Treated Soils and Aggregates
CT216
$590.00
Determining the Resistance "R" Value of Treated and Untreated Bases, Subbases, and Basement 
Soils by the Stabiliometer
ASTM D2844/CT301
$590.00
Laboratory Determination of Water(*moisture) Content of Soil and Rock by Mass
ASTM D2216/CT226
$150.00
$100.00
Density of Soil in Place by the Drive-Cylinder Method
D2937
$116.00
Expansion Index of Soils
ASTM  D4829
$405.00
Hydraulic Conductivity of Saturated Porous Materials Using a Flexible Wall Permeameter 
(Permeability)
ASTM D5084/CT220
$550.00
Lab Compaction Characteristics of Soil 1 Point Proctor (Check Point)
ASTM D698/D1557
$337.00
Maximum Index Density and Unit Weight of Soils Using a Vibratory Table
ASTM D4253
$285.00
Minimum Index Density and Unit Weight of Soils and Calculation of Relative Density
ASTM D4254
$285.00
Density of Hydraulic Cement
ASTM C188
$253.00
Volatile Organic Content
EPA 8260B
QOR
Semi Volatile Organics by GC/Ms (Basic Target List)
EPA 8270C
QOR
Total Organic Carbon
ASTM 2974/EPA 5310Bm
QOR
ICP Metals Concentration
EPA 6020 - CAM/CCR 17
QOR
Total Extractable Petroleum Hydrocarbons: TPH, MTBE, Benzene,Toluene, Ethylbenzene, Zylenes, 
%SS
EPA 8015B
QOR
ICP Metals Concentration
EPA 6020
QOR
pH
EPA  9045D
$535.00
Sequential Batch Extraction of Waste with Acidic Extraction Fluid
ASTM D5284
QOR
Chromium Soluble
EPA 7196A
QOR
Moisture, Ash and Organic Matter of Peat and Other Organic Soils (Organic Content)
ASTM D2974
$270.00
Universal Soil Classification System (USCS) Test
ASTM D2487
$300.00
California Bearing Ratio Test
ASTM D1883
$370.00
Unconfined Compressive Strength of Cohesive Soil
ASTM D2166/CT221
$187.00
ASPHALT
Quantitative Extraction of Bitumen from Bituminous Paving Mixtures (Solvent)
ASTM D2172/CT310
$732.00
Determining Low Temperature Performance Grade (PG) of Asphalt Binders
ASTM 6816
QOR
Thickness/Height of Compacted Bituminous Paving Mixture Specimens (Cores)
ASTM D3549/CT308
$270.00
Method of Prep of Bituminous Mixture Test Specimens
ASTM D6926/CT304
$270.00
Bulk Specific Gravity and Density of Compacted Bituminous Mixtures (LTMD)
ASTM D1188 and 
D2726/CT308
$990.00
Indirect Tensile (IDT) Strength of Bituminous Mixtures (TSR)
ASTM D6931/CT371
$3,146.00
Mechanical Size Analysis (Coarse and Fine) of Extracted Aggregate
ASTM D5444/CT202
$405.00
Marshall Stability and Flow of Bituminous Mixtures
ASTM D6927
$990.00
Theoretical Maximum Specific Gravity and Density (Rice)
ASTM D2041/CT309
$405.00
$300.00
Measuring the Permeability of Bituminous Pavements and Seal Coats
CT341
Swell of Bituminous Mixtures
CT305
$370.00
Moisture Vapor Susceptibility of Bituminous Mixtures/Moisture or Volatile Distillates in Asphalt
ASTM D1461/CT307
$930.00
Stabilometer Value (1 sample)
CT366
$370.00
Determination of Asphalt Content of Bituminous Paving Mixtures by the Ignition Method
CT382/ASTM D6307
$405.00
Determination of Correction Factor of Bituminous Paving Mixtures by the Ignition Method
CT382/ASTM D6307
$405.00
Determination of Asphalt and Moisture Contents of Bituminous Mixtures by Microwave Oven
CT370
$405.00
Effect of Water on Compressive Strength of Compacted Bituminous Mixtures (Set of 6)
ASTM D1075
$3,330.00
Compressive Strength of Bituminous Mixtures
ASTM D1074
$270.00
Hamburg Wheel Track 
AASHTO T324
$3,630.00
Moisture Susceptibility 
AASHTO T283
$3,630.00
SOILS, AGGREGATE, ASPHALTIC CONCRETE SERVICES & TESTS
** Does not include sample preparation or sieve analysis
* Unusual sample preparation (dried clays, saturated clays, etc.) and all other tests for treated or untreated soils, aggregate subbase and aggregate base will be charged at established rates for 
laboratory technician.
All fees subject to Basis of Charges
440 of 574

--- page 441 ---
INSPECTING
TESTING 
ENGINEERING
Standard
MATERIALS MECHANICAL TESTS
Rate/Each
Mechanical Testing of Steel Products (General Tensile)
ASTM A370
$470.00
Fillet Weld Break Test for Qualification (Welding)
AWS B4.0
$205.00
Tension Testing of Metallic Materials, Tension Testing Wrought and Cast Aluminum and Magnesium-
Alloy Products, (Welding Coupon Tensile)
ASTM E8, B557 and AWS B4.0 $470.00
Mechanical Testing of Steel Products (Couplers)
ASTM A370
$460.00
Impact Testing of Miniaturized Charpy V-Notch Specimens, Notched Bar Impact Testing of Metallic 
Materials
ASTM E2248 and ASTM E23
QOR
Testing, Practices, and Terminology for Chemical Analysis of Steel Products
ASTM A751
$336.00
Mechanical Testing of Steel Products & Bend Testing of Material for Ductility; #3-#8
ASTM A370 and E290
$370.00
Mechanical Testing of Steel Products & Bend Testing of Material for Ductility; #9-#11
ASTM A370 and E290
$440.00
Mechanical Testing of Steel Products & Bend Testing of Material for Ductility; #14+
ASTM A370 and E290
QOR
Mechanical Testing of Steel Products, Standard Specification for Steel Wire, Plain, for Concrete 
Reinforcement
ASTM A370, A82 and A185
$440.00
Guided Bend Test for Ductility of Welds, Mechanical Testing of Welds
ASTM E190 and AWS B4.0
$270.00
Determining the Mechanical Properties of Externally and Internally Threaded Fasteners, Anchor 
Bolts Only (Tension and Yield)
ASTM F307, F1554 and F606
$528.00
Rockwell Hardness of Metallic Materials 
ASTM E18
$150.00
Proof Test for Carbon and Alloy Steel (Nuts Only)
ASTM A194 or A563
$337.00
Radiographic Examination of Metallic Castings/Weldments
ASTM E94, E1030 and E1032
QOR
Macroetching Metals and Alloys
ASTM E340, E381 and AWS
$337.00
Determining the Mechanical Properties of Externally and Internally Threaded Fasteners, Washers, 
Direct Tension Indicators, and Rivets (HSB Assemblies)
ASTM F606
$370.00
Mechanical Testing of Steel Products (Terminators Tensile)
ASTM A370
$370.00
Strength for Sewn or Bonded Seams of Geotextiles
ASTM D4884
$336.00
Tearing Strength of Fabrics by the Tongue (Single Rip) Procedure
ASTM D2261 
$336.00
Breaking Strength and Elongation of Textile Fabrics (Grab Test)
ASTM D5034
$270.00
Tensile Properties of Fiber Reinforced Polymer Matrix Composite Bars
ASTM D3039
$990.00
Steel Strand, Uncoated Seven-Wire for Prestressed Concrete
ASTM A416 and A1061
$1,463.00
FIREPROOFING
Thickness and Density of Sprayed Fire-Resistive Material (SFRM)
ASTM E605
$270.00
Cohesion/Adhesion of Sprayed Fire-Resistive Materials (Test Kit Only)
ASTM E736
$77.00
CONTACT INFORMATION
Headquarters: 2118 Rheem Drive • Pleasanton, CA  94588 • P 925.462.5151 • F 925.462.5183
Peninsula: One Embarcadero Center, Suite 535 • San Francisco, CA  94111 • P 415.334.4747 • F 415.438.2357 
Oakland: 246 30th Street, Suite 101 • Oakland, CA  94601 • P 510.444.4747 • F 510.835.1825
Stockton: 343 East Main Street, #711 • Stockton, CA 95202 • P 209.507.7555 • F 209.507.7554
Rocklin: 4400 Yankee Hill Road • Rocklin, CA 95677 • P 916.419.4747 • F 916.419.4774
Las Vegas: 3842 E. Post Road • Las Vegas, NV 89120  • P 702.257.4747 • F 702.257.4718
San Jose: 2033 Gateway Place, #500  •  San Jose, CA 95110  •  P 408.573.6992  •  F 408.437.1201
All fees subject to Basis of Charges
441 of 574

--- page 442 ---
PROJECT BUDGET ESTIMATE
TASK
RATE
206
170
138
175
278
198
#
TASKS DESCRIPTION
Professional
Survey 
Survey 
Travel
2M Survey
1M Survey
HRS.
TOTAL
LS
Coord.
Tech
Time
Crew
Crew
/TASK
COST
1
Poplar Ave Punp Station QA/QC Surveying- Consultant shall collect the x,y,z 
coordinates of the contractor's field staking for the improvements and check that the 
measurements match the current plan provided by the City to the Consultant. The City 
(or 4Leaf) shall provide the consultant CAD files of the approved plan set. Listed here 
are the proposed components to conduct QA/QC survey services to locate control lines, 
transformer pad, retaining walls,outfall structure, electrical building, pump station pumps, 
paving and underground electrical.
2
4
16
5
40
0
67
$15,295
2
Coyote Creek Pump Station QA/QC Surveying -  Consultant shall collect the x,y,z 
coordinates of the contractor's field staking for the improvements and check that the 
measurements match the current plan provided by the City to the Consultant. The City 
(or 4Leaf) shall provide the consultant CAD files of the approved plan set. The 
components described here are those proposed to provide QA/QC survey services to 
locate control lines, transformer pad, retaining walls,outfall structure, electrical building, 
pump station pumps, paving and underground electrical.
2
4
16
5
40
0
67
$15,295
3
Levee Construction QA/QC Surveying - Consultant shall collect the x,y,z coordinates 
of the contractor's field staking for the improvements and check that the measurements 
match the current plan provided by the City (or 4Leaf) to the Consultant. The city shall 
provide the consultant CAD files of the approved plan set.
2
2
8
2
16
0
30
$6,654
Sub-Total
6
10
40
12
96
0
164
$37,244
Miscellaneous Expenses (Mileage, Prints, Postage, etc.)
$100
PROJECT TOTALS
6
10
40
12
96
0
164
$37,344
BELLECCI & ASSOCIATES INC (CONCORD OFFICE)
2290 Diamond Blvd, Suite 100
Concord, CA   94520
925-685-4569
ccapp@bellecci.com
NOTE: BREAKDOWN OF HOURS SHOWN IS FOR ACCOUNTING PURPOSES ONLY. DISTRIBUTION OF HOURS WILL VARY. TOTAL 
PROJECT FEES WILL NOT BE EXCEEDED WITHOUT APPROVAL OF A CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER BY THE CITY OF SAN MATEO or 
4LEAF. Additional time required by the contractor will be invoiced on a T&M basis per the shown rates.  Print costs are not included in the 
above. Please note, Bellecci & Associates utilizes union field crews. Proposal assumes that electronic CAD files will be made available to 
the Bellecci & Associates.                                                                                           
Tasks  - Surveying (QA/QC
FEE PROPOSAL
City of San Mateo
Survey Proposal QA/QC (Poplar Ave PS, Coyote Creek PS & Levee)
February 20, 2019
442 of 574

--- page 443 ---
Professional Services   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 11 
Rev 9/17 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products‐completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non‐owned autos (Code 9), with limit no 
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.  
 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate 
 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self‐insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
 
443 of 574

--- page 444 ---
Professional Services   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 11 
Rev 9/17 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non‐payment) has been given to the City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
 
Deductibles and Self‐Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self‐insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
444 of 574

--- page 445 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-2825
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
May 4, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Underground Flow Equalization System Project – Construction Contract 
RECOMMENDATION:
Award a contract to Anderson Pacific Engineering Construction, Inc. for construction of the Underground Flow Equalization 
System Project in an amount of $55,277,330; establish a contingency of $4,500,000 for a total not to exceed amount of 
$59,777,330; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the form presented and 
issue change orders within the contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The City is currently under a Cease and Desist Order (CDO) issued by the Regional Water Quality Control Board to eliminate 
sewer overflows and unauthorized discharges of untreated or partially treated wastewater to San Francisco Bay. The 
Underground Flow Equalization System Project (UFES Project) is one of the Clean Water Program’s key collection system 
projects. The UFES Project consists of a concrete 5.3-million-gallon underground wastewater holding structure to be 
located beneath the San Mateo County Events Center parking lot and new sewers along Delaware Street and Saratoga 
Drive. 
Staff has worked extensively with community members from the Fiesta Gardens and Bay Meadows neighborhoods to 
address noise, vibration, dust, ground settlement, and traffic concerns.  Measures that minimize and monitor these 
impacts were incorporated in the design and staff committed to maintaining a high level of communication with the 
community through the construction process. Updates and monitoring information will be shared with the public through 
emails, website updates, mailers, and meetings. In addition, a project-specific phone hotline will be established and 
community members will be alerted of activities via text messaging. 
Pre-Qualification and Competitive Bidding 
Due to the complexity of the UFES Project, staff prequalified contractors and selected five firms to bid. On September 5, 
2019, seven firms submitted Statements of Qualifications, and five of the firms were prequalified based on evaluations 
performed by staff. A competitive process was used to obtain bids from the five prequalified contractors. Four bids were 
received on March 19, 2020. Anderson Pacific Engineering Construction, Inc. (Anderson Pacific) submitted the lowest bid 
of $56,567,330, well above the engineer’s estimate of $50 million. At its April 6, 2020 meeting, the City Council adopted a 
resolution rejecting all bids and authorizing the Public Works Director negotiate a contract directly with Anderson Pacific.
Bid Protest and Letter from Building and Trades Council
On April 16, 2020, the second lowest bidder (Shimmick Construction Company) submitted a bid protest on the grounds 
that an award to Anderson Pacific violates the federal regulations applicable to WIFIA-funded projects. Staff reviewed the 
protest and, in consultation with the City Attorney’s office and WIFIA staff, determined the protest lacked merit. The 
Public Works Director sent a written decision denying the protest on April 23, 2020. 
445 of 574

--- page 446 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
On April 20, 2020, the Building and Trades Council of San Mateo County sent the City Council a letter expressing concerns 
about negotiating and potentially awarding the contract to Anderson Pacific rather than re-bidding the project. The City 
Attorney’s office reviewed that letter and determined that the City Council is not legally precluded from awarding the 
contract.
Proposed Contract
Over the past two weeks, staff worked with Anderson Pacific and the design engineer (Stantec) on value engineering 
changes that reduce the contract amount by $1,290,000, as shown in the table below. The savings come from changes to 
the design and construction methods for the pipelines and diversion structure, which directly reduce contract costs. In 
addition, certain bid items will now be treated as allowances, which could result in future savings during construction. Cost 
savings from any further value engineering changes post award will also be shared between the contractor and the City. 
The City will track the allowances during construction, which may result in $600,000 in additional future savings. 
Value Engineering Items
Contract Savings
Potential 
Future Savings
Microtunneling of Diversion Pipelines on Delaware Street and Saratoga Drive
$300,000
Pre-Cast Diversion Structure
$405,000
Replacement of Equipment Backup Alarms
$100,000
Porous Concrete Material Substitution
$200,000
Micropile Length Adjustment
$165,000
Use of Native Backfill (Allowance)
$120,000
$200,000
Excavation Spoils to Foster City Levee Project (Allowance)
$400,000
Total
$1,290,000
$600,000
The collaborative effort between staff, the designer and the contractor has been effective and successful, and staff 
recommends award of the contract to Anderson Pacific and establishing a contingency in the amount of $4,500,000 (8% of 
the contract).
The UFES Project is critical to meeting the requirements of the CDO to eliminate sanitary sewer overflows. Re-bidding the 
UFES Project will shorten the summer and fall excavation window and delay completion of the project for up to one year. 
With the expansion of the wastewater treatment plant on track, UFES needs to be in operation before those upgrades are 
completed. Changes to the schedule would therefore affect the Clean Water Program’s objective to comply with the CDO 
by 2024. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The project is funded through the Basins 2 and 3 Collection System Improvements Project. Once the contract is awarded to 
Anderson Pacific, the remaining balance in this account will be used to fund the rest of the construction projects in Basins 
2 and 3. Staff will continue to evaluate and assess project needs to remain within budget.   
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines section 15080 through 15093, the City prepared an EIR for the UFES Project (SCH No. 
2018092013) and on October 21, 2019 the City Council certified the Final EIR and adopt the requisite findings, statement 
of overriding considerations, and mitigation monitoring and reporting program.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Contract 
446 of 574

--- page 447 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Azalea Mitch, Deputy Director 
amitch@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7309
447 of 574

--- page 448 ---
UFES PACKAGE 
CITY PROJECT NO. 46S003 
 
 
 
STANTEC/184030704 
AGREEMENT 
MARCH 2020 (CONFORMED) 
00 50 00 - 1 
SECTION 00 50 00 - AGREEMENT 
THIS AGREEMENT is by and between the City of San Mateo (Owner)  and Anderson Pacific  
Engineering Construction, Inc. (Contractor). 
Owner and Contractor, in consideration of the mutual covenants set forth herein, agree as 
follows: 
1. 
WORK 
1.1. 
Contractor shall complete the Work as specified or indicated in the Contract 
Documents. The Work is generally described as follows: 
1.1.1 Construction of a new underground collection system flow equalization tank 
with associated diversion structure, gravity diversion sewer and dewatering 
pump discharge force main. The Work includes, but is not limited to, 
temporary facilities and controls; shoring and dewatering, and mass site 
excavation; cast-in-place concrete tank, isolation valve vault and combined 
mechanical and odor control vault; installation of UFES tank flushing system, 
dewatering pumps and pumping equipment; installation of odor control 
scrubbing equipment; installation of associated electrical equipment; 
construction of site restoration and site improvements; and necessary 
appurtenant work to complete the construction as shown in the Contract 
Documents. The Work also includes the construction of a CMU electrical 
building with motor control centers, programable logic control (PLC) panel, 
diesel powered generator and appurtenant electrical equipment to complete 
the construction as shown in the Contract Documents. 
2. 
THE PROJECT 
2.1 
The Project for which the Work under the Contract Documents may be the whole or 
only a part is generally described as follows 
2.1.1 Underground Flow Equalization System (UFES) Package 
3. 
ENGINEER 
3.1 
Engineer means the licensed Engineer and its consultants, retained by the Owner to 
perform design services for the Project. 
4. 
CONTRACT TIMES 
4.1 
Time of the Essence: Time limits for Milestones, if any, Substantial Completion, and 
completion and readiness for final payment as stated in the Contract Documents are 
of the essence of the Contract. 
4.2 
Days to Achieve Substantial Completion and Final Payment: 
448 of 574

--- page 449 ---
UFES PACKAGE 
CITY PROJECT NO. 46S003 
 
 
 
AGREEMENT 
STANTEC/184030704 
00 50 00 - 2 
MARCH 2020 (CONFORMED) 
4.2.1 The Work shall be substantially completed within 588 working days from the 
date when the Contract Times commence to run as provided in Paragraph 
2.03 of the General Conditions, and completed and ready for final payment in 
accordance with Paragraph 14.07 of the General Conditions within 730 
working days after the date when the Contract Times commence to run. 
4.3 
Liquidated Damages: 
4.3.1 Contractor and Owner recognize that time is of the essence of this Agreement 
and that Owner will suffer financial loss if the Work is not completed within the 
times specified in Paragraph Contract Times above, plus any extensions 
thereof allowed in accordance with Article 11 of the General Conditions. The 
parties also recognize the delays, expense, and difficulties involved in proving 
in a legal or arbitration proceeding the actual loss suffered by Owner if the 
Work is not completed on time. Accordingly, instead of requiring any such 
proof, Owner and Contractor agree that as liquidated damages for delay (but 
not as a penalty) Contractor shall pay Owner $3,000 for each day that expires 
after the time specified herein for Substantial Completion until the Work is 
substantially complete. 
4.3.2 After Substantial Completion, if Contractor neglects, refuses, or fails to 
complete remaining Work within the Contract Time or any proper extension 
thereof granted by Owner, Contractor shall pay Owner $3,000 for each day 
that expires after the time specified herein for completion and readiness for 
final payment until the Work is completed and ready for final payment. 
4.4 
Fines: 
4.4.1 
Any fines assessed to the Owner as a result of sewage spills caused by the 
Contractor’s failure to maintain operation of sewage bypass pumping equipment will 
be deducted from the Contractor’s progress payments. 
5. 
CONTRACT PRICE 
5.1 
For all Work, at the prices stated in Contractor’s Bid, incorporated herein by reference, 
a lump sum of $55,277,330. 
6. 
PAYMENT PROCEDURES  
6.1 
Submittal and Processing of Payments: Contractor shall submit Applications for 
Payment in accordance with Article 15 of the General Conditions. Applications for 
Payment will be processed by Engineer as provided in the General Conditions. 
6.2 
Progress Payments and Retainage: Owner will make progress payments on account 
of the Contract Price on the basis of Contractor’s Application for Payment on the date 
of each month as established in the preconstruction conference during performance 
449 of 574

--- page 450 ---
UFES PACKAGE 
CITY PROJECT NO. 46S003 
 
 
 
STANTEC/184030704 
AGREEMENT 
MARCH 2020 (CONFORMED) 
00 50 00 - 3 
of the Work as provided herein. All such payments will be measured by the Schedule 
of Values established as provided in Paragraph 2.05 of the General Conditions (and 
in the case of Unit Price Work based on the number of units completed) or, in the 
event there is no Schedule of Values, as provided in the General Requirements. 
6.2.1 Prior to Substantial Completion, progress payments will be made in an 
amount equal to the percentage indicated below but, in each case, less the 
aggregate of payments previously made and less such amounts as Engineer 
may determine or Owner may withhold, including but not limited to liquidated 
damages, in accordance with Paragraph 15.01 of the General Conditions: 
6.2.1.1 Ninety five percent of Work completed (with the balance being 
retainage). If the Work has been 50 percent completed as determined 
by Engineer, and if the character and progress of the Work have been 
satisfactory to Owner and Engineer, Owner, on recommendation of 
Engineer, may determine that as long as the character and progress 
of the Work remain satisfactory to them, there will be no additional 
retainage; and 
6.2.1.2 Ninety five percent of cost of materials and equipment not 
incorporated in the Work (with the balance being retainage). 
6.2.2 Contractor may elect to substitute securities of equivalent value in accordance 
with requirements and procedures of Sections 22300 or 10263 of the 
California Public Contract Code. 
6.3 
Final Payment: 
6.3.1 Upon final completion and acceptance of the Work in accordance with 
Paragraph 15.06 of the General Conditions, Owner will pay the remainder of 
the Contract Price as recommended by Engineer as provided in Paragraph 
15.06. 
7. 
INTEREST 
7.1 
Monies not paid when due as provided in Article 15 of the General Conditions shall 
bear interest at the legal rate unless otherwise specified according to California law. 
8. 
CONTRACTOR’S REPRESENTATIONS 
8.1 
In order to induce Owner to enter into this Agreement, Contractor makes the following 
representations: 
8.1.1 Contractor has examined and carefully studied the Contract Documents and 
the other related data identified in the Bidding Documents. 
450 of 574

--- page 451 ---
UFES PACKAGE 
CITY PROJECT NO. 46S003 
 
 
 
AGREEMENT 
STANTEC/184030704 
00 50 00 - 4 
MARCH 2020 (CONFORMED) 
8.1.2 Contractor has visited the Site and become familiar with and is satisfied as to 
the general, local, and Site conditions that may affect cost, progress, and 
performance of the Work. 
8.1.3 Contractor is familiar with and is satisfied as to all federal, state, and local 
Laws and Regulations that may affect cost, progress, and performance of the 
Work. 
8.1.4 Contractor has carefully studied: (1) reports of explorations and tests of 
subsurface conditions at or contiguous to the Site and drawings of physical 
conditions relating to existing surface or subsurface structures at the Site 
(except Underground Facilities), if any, which have been identified in 
Paragraph 5.03 of the Supplementary Conditions as containing reliable 
“technical data”, and (2) reports and drawings of Hazardous Environmental 
Conditions, if any, at the Site which have been identified in Paragraph 5.06 of 
the Supplementary Conditions as containing reliable “technical data.” 
8.1.5 Contractor has considered the information known to Contractor; information 
commonly known to contractors doing business in the locality of the Site; 
information and observations obtained from visits to the Site; the Contract 
Documents; and Site-related reports and drawings identified in the Contract 
Documents, with respect to the effect of such information, observations, and 
documents on 1) the cost, progress, and performance of the Work; 2) the 
means, methods, techniques, sequences, and procedures of construction to 
be employed by Contractor, including any specific means, methods, 
techniques, sequences, and procedures of construction expressly required by 
the Contract Documents; and 3) Contractor’s safety precautions and 
programs. 
8.1.6 Based on the information and observations referred to above, Contractor does 
not consider that any further examinations, investigations, explorations, tests, 
studies, or data are necessary for the performance of the Work at the Contract 
Price, within the Contract Times, and in accordance with the other terms and 
conditions of the Contract Documents. 
8.1.7 Contractor is aware of the general nature of work to be performed by Owner 
and others at the Site that relates to the Work as indicated in the Contract 
Documents. 
8.1.8 Contractor has given Engineer written notice of conflicts, errors, ambiguities, 
or discrepancies that Contractor has discovered in the Contract Documents, 
and the written resolution thereof by Engineer is acceptable to Contractor. 
8.1.9 The Contract Documents are generally sufficient to indicate and convey 
understanding of terms and conditions for performance and furnishing of the 
Work. 
451 of 574

--- page 452 ---
UFES PACKAGE 
CITY PROJECT NO. 46S003 
 
 
 
STANTEC/184030704 
AGREEMENT 
MARCH 2020 (CONFORMED) 
00 50 00 - 5 
9. 
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS 
9.1 
Contents: 
9.1.1 The Contract Documents consist of the following: 
9.1.1.1 This Agreement (pages 1 to 8, inclusive). 
9.1.1.2 Performance bond (pages 1 to 4, inclusive). 
9.1.1.3 Payment bond (pages 1 to 4, inclusive). 
9.1.1.4 General Conditions (pages 1 to 52, inclusive). 
9.1.1.5 Supplementary Conditions (pages 1 to 46, inclusive). 
9.1.1.6 Specifications as listed in the table of contents of the Project Manual. 
9.1.1.7 Drawings consisting of approximately 165 sheets with each sheet 
bearing the following general title: “UFES Package”. 
9.1.1.8 Addenda (numbers 1 to 5, inclusive). 
9.1.2 Exhibits to this Agreement (enumerated as follows): 
9.1.2.1 Contractor’s Bid (pages 1 to 10, inclusive). 
9.1.3 The following which may be delivered or issued on or after the Effective Date 
of the Agreement and are not attached hereto: 
9.1.3.1 Notice to Proceed. 
9.1.3.2 Work Change Directives. 
9.1.3.3 Change Order(s). 
9.2 
There are no Contract Documents other than those listed above in this Article. 
9.3 
The Contract Documents may only be amended, modified, or supplemented as 
provided in Paragraph 3.04 of the General Conditions. 
10. 
MISCELLANEOUS 
10.1 
Terms used in this Agreement will have the meanings stated in the General 
Conditions and the Supplementary Conditions. 
10.2 
Successors and Assigns: Owner and Contractor each binds itself, its partners, 
successors, assigns, and legal representatives to the other party hereto, its partners, 
452 of 574

--- page 453 ---
UFES PACKAGE 
CITY PROJECT NO. 46S003 
 
 
 
AGREEMENT 
STANTEC/184030704 
00 50 00 - 6 
MARCH 2020 (CONFORMED) 
successors, assigns, and legal representatives in respect to all covenants, 
agreements, and obligations contained in the Contract Documents. 
10.3 
Severability: Any provision or part of the Contract Documents held to be void or 
unenforceable under any Law or Regulation shall be deemed stricken, and remaining 
provisions shall continue to be valid and binding upon Owner and Contractor, who 
agree the Contract Documents shall be reformed to replace such stricken provision 
or part thereof with a valid and enforceable provision that comes as close as possible 
to expressing the intention of the stricken provision. 
10.4 
Assignment of Contract: 
10.4.1 No assignment by a party hereto of any rights under or interests in the 
Contract shall be binding on another party hereto without the written consent 
of the party sought to be bound; and, specifically but without limitation, monies 
that may become due and monies that are due may not be assigned without 
such consent (except to the extent that the effect of this restriction may be 
limited by law), and unless specifically stated to the contrary in any written 
consent to an assignment, no assignment shall release or discharge the 
assignor from any duty or responsibility under the Contract Documents. 
10.5 
Contractor’s Certifications: 
10.5.1 Contractor certifies that it has not engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or 
coercive practices in competing for or in executing the Contract. For the 
purposes of this paragraph: 
10.5.1.1 “corrupt practice” means the offering, giving, receiving, or soliciting of 
anything of value likely to influence the action of a public official in the 
bidding process or in Contract execution; 
10.5.1.2 “fraudulent practice” means an intentional misrepresentation of facts 
made (a) to influence the bidding process or the execution of the 
Contract to the detriment of Owner, (b) to establish Bid or Contract 
Price at artificial noncompetitive levels, or (c) to deprive Owner of the 
benefits of free and open competition; 
10.5.1.3 “collusive practice” means a scheme or arrangement between two or 
more Bidders, with or without the knowledge of Owner, a purpose of 
which is to establish Bid prices at artificial, noncompetitive levels; and 
10.5.1.4 “coercive practice” means harming or threatening to harm, directly or 
indirectly, persons or their property to influence their participation in 
the bidding process or affect the execution of the Contract. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Owner and Contractor have signed this Agreement in triplicate. 
453 of 574

--- page 454 ---
UFES PACKAGE 
CITY PROJECT NO. 46S003 
 
 
 
STANTEC/184030704 
AGREEMENT 
MARCH 2020 (CONFORMED) 
00 50 00 - 7 
One counterpart each has been delivered to Owner, Contractor, and Engineer. All portions of 
the Contract Documents have been signed or identified by Owner and Contractor or on their 
behalf. 
This Agreement will be effective on __________________(which is the Effective Date of the 
Agreement). 
CITY OF SAN MATEO:  
By:  
 
       Brad B. Underwood 
       Public Works Director 
 
 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
 
 
 
Caio Arellano 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR: Anderson Pacific 
Engineering Construction, Inc. 
By:  
 
       Peter Anderson 
       President 
   
END OF SECTION 
454 of 574

--- page 455 ---
UFES PACKAGE 
CITY PROJECT NO. 46S003 
 
 
 
AGREEMENT 
STANTEC/184030704 
00 50 00 - 8 
MARCH 2020 (CONFORMED) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Page Is 
 
Intentionally 
 
Blank 
 
455 of 574

--- page 456 ---
UFES PACKAGE
CITY PROJECT NO. 46S003

NOTE TO BIDDER: Use typewriter or ink for completing this Bid Form.
SECTION 00 30 00 - BID FORM
(STIPULATED PRICE BASIS)
1. BID RECIPIENT

1.1. This Bid is submitted to:

Owner: City of San Mateo
Address: 330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA

pA A Ra A AE BAR A A Os

Project Identification: | Underground Flow Equalization System (UFES)
Package — ee

Contract No.: 46S003-46S 14-0553-46320

1.2. The undersigned Bidder proposes and agrees, if this Bid is accepted, to enter
into an Agreement with Owner in the form included in the Bidding Documents to
perform all Work as specified or indicated in the Bidding Documents for the prices
and within the times indicated in this Bid and in accordance with the other terms
and conditions of the Bidding Documents.

z. BIDDER’S ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

2.1. Bidder accepts all of the terms and conditions of the Instructions to Bidders,
including without limitation those dealing with the disposition of Bid security. This
Bid will remain subject to acceptance for 90 days after the Bid opening, or for
such longer period of time that Bidder may agree to in writing upon request of
Owner.

3 BIDDER’S REPRESENTATIONS
3.1. In submitting this Bid, Bidder represents that:
3.1.1. Bidder has examined and carefully studied the Bidding Documents, the

other related data identified in the Bidding Documents, and the following
Addenda, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged.

Addendum No. Addendum Date
1 01/19/2020
2 03/04/2020
a 03/12/2020
4 03/16/2020
STANTEC/184030704 BID FORM
APRIL 2020 (VE) 00 30 00 - 1

456 of 574


--- page 457 ---
BID FORM
00 30 00-2

UFES PACKAGE
CITY PROJECT NO. 468003

Addendum No. Addendum Date
04/28/2020

(Bidder shall insert number of each Addendum received.)

3.1.2.

3.1.4.

Bidder has visited the Site and become familiar with and is satisfied as to
the general, local, and Site conditions that may affect cost, progress, and
performance of the Work.

. Bidder is familiar with and is satisfied as to all Laws and Regulations that

may affect cost, progress, and performance of the Work.

Bidder has carefully studied: i) reports of explorations and tests of
subsurface conditions at or contiguous to the Site and drawings of
physical conditions relating to existing surface or subsurface structures
at the Site (except Underground Facilities) which have been identified in
Paragraph 5.03 of the Supplementary Conditions as containing reliable
“technical data,”; and ii)reports and drawings of Hazardous
Environmental Conditions, if any, at the Site that have been identified in
Paragraph 5.06 of the Supplementary Conditions as containing reliable
“technical data.”

Bidder has considered the information known to Bidder; information
commonly known to contractors doing business in the locality of the Site;
information and observations obtained from visits to the Site; the Bidding
Documents; and the Site-related reports and drawings identified in the
Bidding Documents, with respect to the effect of such information,
observations, and documents on (1) the cost, progress, and performance
of the Work; (2) the means, methods, techniques, sequences, and
procedures of construction to be employed by Bidder, including applying
the specific means, methods, techniques, sequences, and procedures of
construction expressly required by the Bidding Documents; and (3)
Bidder’s safety precautions and programs.

Based on information and observations referred to in paragraph above,
Bidder does not consider that further examinations, investigations,
explorations, tests, studies, or data are necessary for the determination
of this Bid for performance of the Work at the price(s) Bid and within the
times required, and in accordance with the other terms and conditions of
the Bidding Documents.

Bidder is aware of the general nature of work to be performed by Owner

and others at the Site that relates to the Work as indicated in the Bidding
Documents.

STANTEC/184030704
APRIL 2020 (VE)

457 of 574


--- page 458 ---
UFES PACKAGE
CITY PROJECT NO. 468003

3.1.8.

Bidder has given Engineer written notice of conflicts, errors, ambiguities,
or discrepancies that Bidder has discovered in the Bidding Documents,
and the written resolution thereof by Engineer is acceptable to Bidder.

. The Bidding Documents are generally sufficient to indicate and convey

understanding of terms and conditions for the performance of the Work
for which this Bid is submitted.

4. BIDDER’S CERTIFICATION

4.1. Bidder certifies:
4.1.1. This Bid is genuine and not made in the interest of or on behalf of any
undisclosed individual or entity and is not submitted in conformity with
any collusive agreement or rules of any group, association, organization
or corporation;
4.1.2. Bidder has not directly or indirectly induced or solicited any other Bidder
to submit a false or sham Bid;
4.1.3. Bidder has not solicited or induced any individual or entity to refrain from
bidding; and
4.1.4. Bidder has not engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive
practices in competing for the Contract. For the purposes of this
paragraph:
4.1.4.1. “corrupt practice” means the offering, giving, receiving, or
soliciting of anything of value likely to influence the action of a
public official in the bidding process;

4.1.4.2. “fraudulent practice” means an intentional misrepresentation of
facts made (a) to influence the bidding process to the detriment
of Owner, (b) to establish Bid prices at artificial noncompetitive
levels, or (c) to deprive Owner of the benefits of free and open
competition;

4.1.4.3. “collusive practice” means a scheme or arrangement between
two or more Bidders, with or without the knowledge of Owner, a
purpose of which is to establish Bid prices at artificial,
noncompetitive levels; and

4.1.4.4. “coercive practice” means harming or threatening to harm,
directly or indirectly, persons or their property to influence their
participation in the bidding process or affect the execution of the
Contract.

4.1.5. Required sales and use taxes are included in the stated Bid prices for the
Work unless provision is made herein for the Bidder to separately itemize

STANTEC/184030704 BID FORM

APRIL 2020 (VE)

00 30 00-3

458 of 574


--- page 459 ---
UFES PACKAGE
CITY PROJECT NO. 468003

the estimated amount of sales tax or if Instructions to Bidders state Owner
is tax exempt.

4.1.6. In accordance with California Public Contract Code 6101 Bidder has not
been convicted of violating a state or federal law respecting the
employment of undocumented aliens in preceding 5 years.

4.1.7. In accordance with California Labor Code 1777.1, neither Bidder nor its
Subcontractors have violated the statutes regarding apprentices for
1 year for the first violation and up to 3years for the second or
subsequent violations.

4.1.8. In accordance with California Public Contract Code 10162, neither Bidder
nor any employee with a proprietary interest in Bidder, has ever been
disqualified, removed, or otherwise prevented from bidding on or
completing a federal, state or local government project because of a
violation of law or a safety regulation.

4.1.9. In accordance with California Public Contract Code 10232, Bidder has no
more than one final, unappealable finding of contempt of court by a
federal court in last 2 years because of Bidder’s failure to comply with a
National Labor Relations Board order.

4.1.10. In accordance with California Public Contract Code 10285.1, Bidder has
not been convicted of violating state or federal antitrust law within the last
3 years.

5. BASIS OF BIDS

5.1.

She

‘a

BID FORM
00 30 00 - 4

| | Bia Bid
“em Bid Item Title Units Unit Price

| — Bid Items -

1. Mobilization/Demobilization LS | $ 2,000,000
| ot to Exceed 5% of Total Bid

The bid form includes Base bid items that constitute the base scope of work in
the contract. The bid form also includes a category for Additive or Deductive
Items, in which the listed items may be added or revoked from the scope of work
in the contract at the Owner's sole discretion, at any time during the course of
bidding or construction. If added, an Additive Item shall be performed by the
Contractor; the basis of compensation to the Contractor for such Work shall be
the amount indicated in the Total Price for the Bid Item. If revoked, a Deductive
Item shall not be performed by the Contractor, and the Contractor shall have no
claim for compensation.

Bidder shall complete the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents for
the following price(s):

Quantity | Total Price

STANTEC/184030704
APRIL 2020 (VE)

459 of 574


--- page 460 ---
UFES PACKAGE
CITY PROJECT NO. 46S003

Unit Price | Quantity | Total Price

$ 1,000,000

=
S
SS |
rn)
S
S

LS

onds and Insurance

>

Bid Item Title
2 |

12,000,000 $ 12,000,000

—

2,250,000 $ 2,250,000

B

N

2
Sheeting, Shoring, and Bracing LS
;

5 SWPPP Implementation and
Maintenance

Pedestrian and Traffic Control

id
0. ia

55,000 $ 55,000

S
LS
LS

a

810,000

_—

$ 810,000

$21,327,200
$2,500,000
$2,750,000

UFES Site LS 21,327,200
S

UFES Site Piles 2,500,000

7B. UFES Spoil Haul and Disposal $2,750,000
ance

1

$200,000 |

7B.
UFES Import Backfill $200,000
ance
UFES Site Porous Concrete
Paving

500 $ 45,000 |

8,600 | $ 627,800 |

UFES Site Porous Asphalt 73
Paving

SY

SY
36-inch PVC Relief Sewer by LS 6,930,000
Open Cut

LF

LF

l $6,930,000

26 $ 29,250

9 18-inch PVC Relief Sewer ur 1,125
Open Cut 24-inch PVC

11.
12.
Dewatering Force Main

13 Force Main Access Chambers EA

14. | Force Main Access Chamber LS
With Drain

Pressure CIPP Lining of
Dewatering Force Main

Open Cut 18-inch PVC
Dewatering Force Main

380 1870 $710,600

F

1,350 190 $256,500

LF 1,460 18 $26,280

70,000
90,000

2
1

$140,000
$90,000

STANTEC/184030704 BID FORM
APRIL 2020 (VE) 00 30 00-5

460 of 574


--- page 461 ---
UFES PACKAGE
CITY PROJECT NO. 46S003

Quantity | Total Price
No.

ie |

15. | Combination Air Release S 28,000 1 $28,000 |
Manhole

al

6
7. | Northern Diversion Structure
Cast-in-Place Structure
;
a
Installed by HDD
[ezine [= [mm [i |
Restoration
1 Allowance for Conducting Allow | $100,000

Building Inspections ance __

$400,000

—_—

Be

Base Bid Total | $ 55,577,330

Additive or Deductive Items

22 | Micropile Length Adjustment LF
After Testing Phase
LS

23 Deduction for 36” Relief Sewer -300,000
and Sewer Manhole Installation
(Bid Item No. 8 and Bid Item

No. 18) by Microtunneling

$ -300,000

LL

Base Bid and Additive or Deductive Items Total

6. TIME OF COMPLETION

6.1. Bidder agrees the Work, and any Milestones specified in Section 01 04 00,
Project Coordination, will be substantially complete and will be completed and
ready for final payment in accordance with Paragraph 15.03 of the General
Conditions on or before the dates, or within the number of working days,
indicated in the Agreement.

6.2. Bidder accepts the provisions of the Agreement as to liquidated damages in the
event of failure to complete the Work, and any specified Milestones, within the
Contract Times.

Tt ATTACHMENTS TO THIS BID

BID FORM STANTEC/184030704
00 30 00 -6 APRIL 2020 (VE)

461 of 574


--- page 462 ---
UFES PACKAGE
CITY PROJECT NO. 46S003

7.1. The following documents are submitted with and made a condition of this Bid:

7.1.1. Required Bid security in the form of Bid bond.

7.1.2. List of Proposed Subcontractors and Suppliers.

7.1.3. Evidence of authority to do business in the state of the Project; or a
written covenant to obtain such license within the time for acceptance of
Bids.

7.1.4. Contractor’s License No.: 245215

7.1.5. Noncollusion Affidavit.

7.1.6. Nonresident Bidders shall submit bid preference rules applicable in the
state where Bidder’s principle place of business is located.

7.1.7. DBE Forms 6100-2, 6100-3 and 6100-4 (US EPA DBE Requirements)
7.1.8. Supplement 01, American Iron and Steel Certification

7.1.9. Supplement 02, Subcontractors List

7.1.10. Supplement 03, Debarment and Suspension Certification

7.1.11. Supplement 04, DIR Registration Certification (for Bidder and all
subcontractors completing prevailing wage work)

7.1.12. Supplement 05, Iran Contracting Act Certification
7.1.13. Supplement 06, Non-Collusion Declaration
7.1.14. Supplement 07, Non-Discrimination and Equal Opportunity Affidavits
7.1.15. Supplement 08, Certification regarding Lobbying
8. DEFINED TERMS

8.1. The terms used in this Bid with initial capital letters have the meanings stated in
the Instructions to Bidders, the General Conditions, and the Supplementary
Conditions.

9. BID SUBMITTAL

9.1. This Bid submitted by:

If Bidder is:
An Individual
Name (typed or printed):
STANTEC/184030704 BID FORM
APRIL 2020 (VE) 00 30 00 - 7

462 of 574


--- page 463 ---
UFES PACKAGE
CITY PROJECT NO. 46S003
By (signature):
Doing business as:
A Partnership
Partnership Name: (SEAL)

By: a
(Signature of general partner — attach evidence of authority to sign)

Name (typed or printed):

A Corporation

Corporation Name:

Anderson Pacific Engineering
Construction, Inc. (SEAL)

State of Incorporation: California

Type wee “ke Professional, Service, Limited Liability; General Business
By: ar

(Signature — attach evidence of authority to sign)
Name (typed or printed): _Peter E. Anderson
Title: President (CORPORATE SEAL)
Attest:
(Signature of Corporate Secretary)

Date of Qualification to do business in California is:
04/11/1966

A Joint Venture
Joint Venturer Name: (SEAL)
By:
(Signature of joint venture partner — attach evidence of authority to sign)
Name (typed or printed):
Title:

(Each joint venturer must sign. The manner of signing for each individual,
partnership, and corporation that is a party to the joint venture should be
in the manner indicated above.)

Bidder’s Business Address: 1390 Norman Avenue

Santa Clara CA 95054

408-970-9900

STANTEC/184030704
APRIL 2020 (VE)

463 of 574


--- page 464 ---
UFES PACKAGE
CITY PROJECT NO. 46S003

E-mail: Pea@andpac.com

SUBMITTED on Ava 2B , 20 20

California Contractor’s License No.: 245215

Contractor’s License Class (where applicable): _ A, B, C-10, HAZ

END OF SECTION

STANTEC/184030704
APRIL 2020 (VE)

BID FORM
00 30 00-9

464 of 574


--- page 465 ---
ANDERSON PACIFIC

Engineering Construction, Inc.

Certification by Secretary
Of Corporate Resolution

At the meeting of the Directors of __Anderson Pacific Engineering Construction, Inc. _, a corporation organized
(Legal Company Name)

and existing under the laws of the State of California , duly called and
(State of Incorporation)

held in accordance with the articles of incorporation and bylaws of the corporation at its office on January 1998 at

(Date of Meeting)
which a quorum of the directors was present the following resolution was adopted to wit:
Resolved, that Peter E. Anderson, President and/or
(Name of Officer and Title)
Matthew Mirenda, Vice President is/are hereby authorized to sign
(Name of Officer and Title)
contracts/agreements in the name of and on behalf of __ Anderson Pacific Engineering Construction, Inc
(Legal Company Name)
I, __ Anne P. Anderson , Secretary of ___ Anderson Pacific Engineering
(Name) (Legal Company Name)
Construction, Inc. , do hereby certify that I am the Secretary of said corporation

and that the above is a full, true, and correct copy of a resolution of the Board of Directors of said corporation, duly

adopted at meeting held on January 1998 and that said resolution has not been revoked or rescinded.
(Date of Meeting)

In witness whereof, I have hereunto subscribed my name and affixed the seal of said corporation.

u[2e Osram Anolo-dt

(Date) Secretary

(Seal)

1390 Norman Avenue
Santa Clara, CA 95054
Fax: 408/970-9975
408/970-9900
Lic. No. 245215

465 of 574


--- page 466 ---
UFES PACKAGE
CITY PROJECT NO. 468003

This Page Is
Intentionally
Blank
BID FORM STANTEC/184030704
00 30 00 - 10 APRIL 2020 (VE)

466 of 574


--- page 467 ---
UFES PACKAGE
CITY PROJECT NO. 468003

SECTION 00 43 40 - PROPOSED SUBCONTRACTORS FORM

Pursuant to California Public Contract Code §4104 et seq., the Bidder shail list below the names,
locations of place of business, and California contractor license number of each subcontractor who will
perform Work or labor or who will render service to the prime Contractor in or about the construction of
the Work or improvement, or a subcontractor duly licensed who, under subcontract to the prime
Contractor, specially fabricates and installs a portion of the Work or improvement according to detailed
Drawings contained in the Bidding Documents, in an amount in excess of 1/2 of 1 percent of the prime
Contractor's total Bid or, in the case of Bids or offers for the construction of streets or highways,
including bridges, in excess of 1/2 of 1 percent of the prime Contractor's total Bid or $10,000, whichever
is greater. After the opening of Bids, no changes or substitutions will be allowed except as otherwise
provided by law. The listing of more than one subcontractor for each item of Work to be performed with
the words “and/or” will not be permitted. The Bidder's attention is directed to the provisions of Paragraph
7.06.B.1 of the Supplementary Conditions, which stipulates the percent of the Work to be performed
with the Bidder's own forces. Failure to comply with this requirement may render the Bid as non-
responsive and may cause its rejection.

Contractor Percent
Work to be Performed License of Total
Number contract

Subcontractor’s Name,
Address, and Contact Person

lob i] Ingrtutoyr 2, Ie
at CESS oh ra S ah ONE Y
2. Peay 104-734 8 me ebar-
it loo ie
py al GS re Wave nen W fa
3. Dewetot (e423 8) One 8 Ere ee Corre
we ee 4 lege ha honaaen
ere af On1 BO At |e min Cal loS Ger He Lah lucat hes

4. 1Nd) ana veerdiee [. ae Torres: Broan
fr
5. Shoniwg Microplye to.) br Tech? Deill Shes
p rte‘ | 4

ony “i gi ws meey
1
Add additional sheets, if necessary.

(Signature)
3/1] 4/2/r0

(Date)

END OF SECTION

STANTEC/184030704 PROPOSED SUBCONTRACTORS FORM
DECEMBER 2019 00 43 40 - 1

467 of 574


--- page 468 ---
UFES PACKAGE
CITY PROJECT NO. 468003

SECTION 00 43 40 - PROPOSED SUBCONTRACTORS FORM

Pursuant to California Public Contract Code §4104 et seq., the Bidder shall list below the names,
locations of place of business, and California contractor license number of each subcontractor who will
perform Work or labor or who will render service to the prime Contractor in or about the construction of
the Work or improvement, or a subcontractor duly licensed who, under subcontract to the prime
Contractor, specially fabricates and installs a portion of the Work or improvement according to detailed
Drawings contained in the Bidding Documents, in an amount in excess of 1/2 of 1 percent of the prime
Contractor's total Bid or, in the case of Bids or offers for the construction of streets or highways,
including bridges, in excess of 1/2 of 1 percent of the prime Contractor's total Bid or $10,000, whichever
is greater. After the opening of Bids, no changes or substitutions will be allowed except as otherwise
provided by law. The listing of more than one subcontractor for each item of Work to be performed with
the words “and/or” will not be permitted. The Bidder's attention is directed to the provisions of Paragraph
7.06.B.1 of the Supplementary Conditions, which stipulates the percent of the Work to be performed
with the Bidder’s own forces. Failure to comply with this requirement may render the Bid as non-
responsive and may cause its rejection.

Contractor Percent
Z Subcontractor’s Name
Work to be Performed License of Total ;
Wonton Peomed | Number | Contract_| Address, and Contact Person

1lanevese Block Oreaet
MASOTET Ve ee aes7:

2Concrete Block geek
ss ¥ Fs

1o0900 39dTe

ary Te hWasec
LIM barb e-
4 S

Add additional sheets, if necessary.

DER
(Signature)
3/2» H[24 [20
(Date)
END OF SECTION
STANTEC/184030704 PROPOSED SUBCONTRACTORS FORM
DECEMBER 2019 00 43 40-1

468 of 574


--- page 469 ---
> EPA ins States : OMB Control No: 2090-0030
P, Environmental Protection
as Agency Approved: 8/13/2013

Approval Expires; 8/31/2015

Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program
DBE Subcontractor Performance Form

This form is intended to capture the DBE’ subcontractor’s? description of work to be performed and the price of
the work submitted to the prime contractor. An EPA Financial Assistance Agreement Recipient must require its
prime contractor to have its DBE subcontractors complete this form and include all completed forms in the prime
contractors bid or proposal package.

Subcontractor Name Project Name
ALMEIRL FRE Underground Flow Equalization System

Bid/ Proposal No. Assistance Agreement ID No. (ifknown) | Point of Contact

Kan to

Address
4205 B ST, stockton, ek 95206
Telephone No.

Email Address
AVS -AAZ-JAO teho @ zmetol A
Prime Contractor Name Issuing/Funding Entity:
Anderson Pacific Engineering Construction, Inc. EPA

Contract Item Number Description of Work Submitted to the Prime Contractor

Involving Construction, Services , Equipment or Supplies

Price of Work
Submitted to the
Prime Contractor

Mise METAL [OTR UOTURUCL S(GEL $114,000

DBE Certified By:__ DOT
2% Other: MEG

Meets/ exceeds EPA certification standards?
__ YES ___ NO _% Unknown

; A DBE is a Disadvantaged, Minority, or Woman Business Enterprise that has been certified by an entity from which EPA accepts certifications as
described in 40 CFR 33.204-33.205 or certified by EPA. EPA accepts certifications from entities that meet or exceed EPA certification standards as
described in 40 CFR 33.202. |

2 subcontractor is defined as a company, firm, joint venture, or individual who enters into an agreement with a contractor to provide services
pursuant to an EPA award of financial assistance.

EPA FORM 6100-3 (DBE Subcontractor Performance Form)

469 of 574


--- page 470 ---
£% EPA erirenmen isandltie OMB Control No: 2090-0030
AVIF if 1

Sy hooey Approved: 8/13/2013

Approval Expires: 8/31/2015

Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program
DBE Subcontractor Performance Form

I certify under penalty of perjury that the forgoing statements are true and correct. Signing this form does not
signify a commitment to utilize the subcontractors above. I am aware of that in the event of a replacement of a
subcontractor, I will adhere to the replacement requirements set forth in 40 CFR Part 33 Section 33.302 (c).

_ Prime Contractor Signature

05 Aes

Print Name

Peter E. Anderson

Subcontractor Signature

[subcontractor Sigature
Ken Ke

3/24/20

The public reporting and recordkeeping burden for this collection of information is estimated to average three (3) hours
per response. Send comments on the Agency's need for this information, the accuracy of the provided burden
estimates, and any suggested methods for minimizing respondent burden, including through the use of automated
collection techniques to the Director, Collection Strategies Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (2822T), 1200
Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Washington, D.C. 20460. Include the OMB control number in any correspondence. Do not send
the completed form to this address.

EPA FORM 6100-3 (DBE Subcontractor Performance Form)

470 of 574


--- page 471 ---
SEPA iets recto OM Control No: 2090-0030
LY 4 Agency Approved: 8/13/2013

Approval Expires: 8/31/2015

Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program
DBE Subcontractor Performance Form

This form is intended to capture the DBE? subcontractor’s? description of work to be performed and the price of
the work submitted to the prime contractor. An EPA Financial Assistance Agreement Recipient must require its
prime contractor to have its DBE subcontractors complete this form and include all completed forms in the prime
contractors bid or proposal package.

Subcontractor Name Project Name

James Long Construction Services, Inc.
Bid/ Proposal No.

Underground Flow Equalization System
Assistance Agreement ID No. (if known) | Point of Contact

Brad Tucker

Address
8560 Younger Creek Dr,, Sacramento, CA 95828

916-379-9524 btucker@jameslongconstruction.com
Prime Contractor Name Issuing/Funding Entity:
City of San Mateo / State Water Revolving Fund

Anderson Pacific

Contract Item Number Description of Work Submitted to the Prime Contractor Price of Work
Involving Construction, Services , Equipment or Supplies Submitted to the
Prime Contractor

HVAC & FOUL AIR SYSTEMS $259,800.00

DBE Certified By:___ DOT SBA Meets/ exceeds EPA certification standards?

_X_ Other: __ DGS _X YES __NO __ Unknown

1A DBEisa Disadvantaged, Minority, or Woman Business Enterprise that has been certified by an entity from which EPA accepts certifications as
described in 40 CFR 33.204-33.205 or certified by EPA. EPA accepts certifications from entities that meet or exceed EPA certification standards as
described in 40 CFR 33.202.

‘ Subcontractor is defined as a company, firm, joint venture, or individual who enters into an agreement with a contractor to provide services
pursuant to an EPA award of financial assistance.

EPA FORM 6100-3 (DBE Subcontractor Performance Form)

471 of 574


--- page 472 ---
a EPA United States OMB Control No: 2090-0030
nvi
Ly Agency. ok Approved: 8/13/2013

Approval Expires: 8/31/2015

Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program
DBE Subcontractor Performance Form

| certify under penalty of perjury that the forgoing statements are true and correct. Signing this form does not
signify a commitment to utilize the subcontractors above. | am aware of that in the event of a replacement of a
subcontractor, | will adhere to the replacement requirements set forth in 40 CFR Part 33 Section 33.302 (c).

Prime Coptractor Signature _______PrintName

NAL — rawr inns

J\.
pe oa ie ee

2

Subcontractor Signature

aa
Brad Tashan
re See ae ee eS eee

VICE PRESIDENT

The public reporting and recordkeeping burden for this collection of information is estimated to average three (3) hours
per response. Send comments on the Agency's need for this information, the accuracy of the provided burden
estimates, and any suggested methods for minimizing respondent burden, including through the use of automated
collection techniques to the Director, Collection Strategies Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (2822T), 1200
Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Washington, D.C. 20460. Include the OMB control number in any correspondence. Do not send
the completed form to this address.

EPA FORM 6100-3 (DBE Subcontractor Performance Form)

472 of 574


--- page 473 ---
= EPA Eeecnrrottal Protection OMB Control No: 2090-0030
WwW Agency Approved: 8/13/2013

Approval Expires: 8/31/2015

Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program
DBE Subcontractor Performance Form

This form is intended to capture the DBE? subcontractor’s? description of work to be performed and the price of
the work submitted to the prime contractor. An EPA Financial Assistance Agreement Recipient must require its
prime contractor to have its DBE subcontractors complete this form and include all completed forms in the prime
contractors bid or proposal package.

Subcontractor Name
Morgner Construction Management

Bid/ Proposal No.
46S003-46S 1 4-0553-46320

Project Name
Underground Flow Equalization System(UFES) Package

Assistance Agreement ID No. (if known)

Point of Contact
Walter Contreras

Address 5955 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 333, Los Angeles, CA 90036

Telephone No. (393) 900-0030 Email Address weontreras@ morgnerco.com
Prime Contractor Name Issuing/Funding Entity:
Anderson Pacific Engineering Construction, Inc. US Environmental Protection Agency

Contract Item Number

Description of Work Submitted to the Prime Contractor
Involving Construction, Services , Equipment or Supplies

Price of Work
Submitted to the
Prime Contractor

Geotechnical Instrumentation (Excavation Monitoring)

BID ITEM NO. 1

$188,630

BID ITEM NO. 1 Noise and Vibration Monitoring

$163,200

BID ITEM NO. 1

Pre-Construction Surveys (Photo/Video Documentation) $63,480

DBE Certified By: ___ DOT
_X Other; CUCP# 34375

Meets/ exceeds EPA certification standards?
_X_YES ___NO __ Unknown

1A DBE isa Disadvantaged, Minority, or Woman Business Enterprise that has been certified by an entity from which EPA accepts certifications as
described in 40 CFR 33.204-33.205 or certified by EPA. EPA accepts certifications from entities that meet or exceed EPA certification standards as
described in 40 CFR 33.202.

; Subcontractor is defined as a company, firm, joint venture, or individual who enters into an agreement with a contractor to provide services
pursuant to an EPA award of financial assistance.

EPA FORM 6100-3 (DBE Subcontractor Performance Form)

473 of 574


--- page 474 ---
a EPA tases iiss OMB Control No: 2090-0030
Ww ico Approved: 8/13/2013

Approval Expires: 8/31/2015

Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program
DBE Subcontractor Performance Form

I certify under penalty of perjury that the forgoing statements are true and correct. Signing this form does not
signify a commitment to utilize the subcontractors above. | am aware of that in the event of a replacement of a
subcontractor, | will adhere to the replacement requirements set forth in 40 CFR Part 33 Section 33.302 (c).

Print Name

Peter E, Anderson

Monique Morgner Lukeman
Date
3/18/2020

The public reporting and recordkeeping burden for this collection of information is estimated to average three (3) hours
per response. Send comments on the Agency's need for this information, the accuracy of the provided burden
estimates, and any suggested methods for minimizing respondent burden, including through the use of automated
collection techniques to the Director, Collection Strategies Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (2822T), 1200
Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Washington, D.C. 20460. Include the OMB control number in any correspondence. Do not send
the completed form to this address.

EPA FORM 6100-3 (DBE Subcontractor Performance Form)

474 of 574


--- page 475 ---
SEPA: Environment Protection OMB Control No: 2090-0030
Approved; 8/13/2013

Approval Expires: 8/31/2015

Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program
DBE Subcontractor Performance Form

This form is intended to capture the DBE? subcontractor’s? description of work to be performed and the price of
the work submitted to the prime contractor. An EPA Financial Assistance Agreement Recipient must require its
prime contractor to have its DBE subcontractors complete this form and include all completed forms in the-prime
contractors bid or proposal package.

Subcontractor Name Project Name
CPZ 10. MARE , Underground Flow Equalization System
Bid/ Proposal Ae Aesistan Og Agreement ID No. (ifknown) | Point of Contact
Unknown
Cp) = & Nf ,

Address _, i/ e
Email Ad

Telephone No. » ress

Prime Contractor Name Issuing/Funding Entity:
Anderson Pacific Engineering Construction, Inc. EPA

Contract Item Number Description of Work Submitted to the Prime Contractor Price of Work
Involving Construction, Services , Equipment or Supplies Submitted to the
Prime Contractor

DBE Certified By:__ DOT 25 SBA Meets/ exceeds EPA certification standards?
___ Other: — YES _.%.NO _ Unknown

1 \ DBE is a Disadvantaged, Minority, or Woman Business Enterprise that has been certified by an entity from which EPA accepts certifications as
described In 40 CFR 33.204-33.205 or certified by EPA. EPA accepts certifications from entities that meet or exceed EPA certification standards as
described In 40 CFR 33.202.

Z Subcontractor is defined as a company, firm, joint venture, or individual who enters into an agreement with a contractor to provide services
pursuant to an EPA award of financial assistance,

EPA FORM 6100-3 (DBE Subcontractor Performance Form)

475 of 574


--- page 476 ---
WW /a\ ee” Approved: 8/13/2013

Approval Expires: 8/31/2015

Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program
DBE Subcontractor Performance Form

I certify under penalty of perjury that the forgoing statements are true and correct, Signing this form does not
signify acommitment to utilizethe subcontractors above. 1 am aware-of that in the event of-a replacement ofa
subcontractor, | will adhere to the replacement requirements set forth in 40 CFR Part 33 Section 33.302 (c).

Peter E. Anderson

The public reporting and recordkeeping burden for this collection of information is estimated to average three (3) hours
per response. Send comments on the Agency's need for this information, the accuracy of the provided burden
estimates, and any suggested methods for minimizing respondent burden, including through the use of automated
collection techniques to the Director, Collection Strategies Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (2822T), 1200
Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Washington, D.C. 20460, Include the OMB control number in any correspondence. Do not send
the completed form to this address.

EPA FORM 6100-3 (DBE Subcontractor Performance Form)

476 of 574


--- page 477 ---
Ee ERA Emironmenta Ranaction OMB Control No: 2090-0030
nviro. en iT
aw Agency Approved: 8/13/2013

Approval Expires: 8/31/2015

Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program
DBE Subcontractor Performance Form

This form is intended to capture the DBE! subcontractor’s? description of work to be performed and the price of
the work submitted to the prime contractor. An EPA Financial Assistance Agreement Recipient must require its
prime contractor to have its DBE subcontractors complete this form and include all completed forms in the prime
contractors bid or proposal] package.

Subcontractor Name Project Name

VZAu x DWC. Underground Flow Equalization System
Bid/ Proposal No. Assistance Agreement ID No. (if known) | Point of Contact

Vea #25 -B b Ls Bow Spucrys
Address
243 FAL OMnKsS Kw, FSO, Shed Amero c+ 458%
Telephone No. =! hat Email Address
No Sse 5755 KoaWeenrrne .em
Prime Contractor Name Issuing/Funding Entity:
Anderson Pacific Engineering Construction, Inc. EPA

Contract Item Number Description of Work Submitted to the Prime Contractor Price of Work
Involving Construction, Services , Equipment or Supplies Submitted to the
Prime Contractor

SWPPP preparation $2,500.00

a —NO __Unknown Certified MicroBusiness

DBE Certified By:___ DOT

A DBE isa Disadvantaged, Minority, or Woman Business Enterprise that has been certified by an entity from which EPA accepts certifications as
described in 40 CFR 33.204-33.205 or certified by EPA. EPA accepts certifications from entities that meet or exceed EPA certification standards as
described in 40 CFR 33,202.

* Subcontractor is defined as a company, firm, joint venture, or individual who enters into an agreement with a contractor to provide services
pursuant to an EPA award of financial assistance.

EPA FORM 6100-3 (DBE Subcontractor Performance Form)

477 of 574


--- page 478 ---
fe EPA Emicrment Bester OMB Control No: 2090-0030
nvironmental Frotectio!
F Agent Approved: 8/13/2013

Approval Expires: 8/31/2015

Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program
DBE Subcontractor Performance Form

I certify under penalty of perjury that the forgoing statements are true and correct. Signing this form does not
signify a commitment to utilize the subcontractors above. I] am aware of that in the event of a replacement of a
subcontractor, I will adhere to the replacement requirements set forth in 40 CFR Part 33 Section 33.302 (c).

aa oan pactor Signature

ht Peter E. Anderson
ee eg ee
a.)

Subcont pes ae

O_O

President

Title

“eee ete

The public reporting and recordkeeping burden for this collection of information is estimated to average three (3) hours
per response. Send comments on the Agency's need for this information, the accuracy of the provided burden
estimates, and any suggested methods for minimizing respondent burden, including through the use of automated
collection techniques to the Director, Collection Strategies Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (2822T), 1200
Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Washington, D.C. 20460. Include the OMB control number in any correspondence. Do not send
the completed form to this address.

EPA FORM 6100-3 (DBE Subcontractor Performance Form)

478 of 574


--- page 479 ---
oo EPA Eaviroreentel Protection OME Control No: 2090-0030
ww Agency Approved: 8/13/2013

Approval Expires: 8/31/2015

Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program
DBE Subcontractor Performance Form

This form is intended to capture the DBE? subcontractor’s? description of work to be performed and the price of
the work submitted to the prime contractor. An EPA Financial Assistance Agreement Recipient must require its
prime contractor to have its DBE subcontractors complete this form and include all completed forms in the prime
contractors bid or proposal package.

Subcontractor Name Project Name

Vibrasure Underground Flow Equalization System

Bid/ Proposal No. Assistance Agreement ID No. (if known) | Point of Contact
46S003-46S14-0553-46320 Tyler Rynberg
Address
2440 16th St, #317, San Francisco, CA 94103
Telephone No. Email Address
415-946-8487 tyler@vibrasure.com

Prime Contractor Name Issuing/Funding Entity:

Anderson Pacific Engineering Construction, Inc. EPA

Contract Item Number Description of Work Submitted to the Prime Contractor Price of Work
Involving Construction, Services , Equipment or Supplies Submitted to the
Prime Contractor

01 50 00, 31 09 13 Noise and Vibration Planning and Monitoring

DBE Certified By:___ DOT SBA Meets/ exceeds EPA certification standards?

X_ Other; SBE with CA DGS, #2007534 YES __ NO X_Unknown

"A DBE isa Disadvantaged, Minority, or Woman Business Enterprise that has been certified by an entity from which EPA accepts certifications as
described in 40 CFR 33.204-33.205 or certified by EPA. EPA accepts certifications from entities that meet or exceed EPA certification standards as
described in 40 CFR 33.202.

* subcontractor is defined as a company, firm, joint venture, or individual who enters into an agreement with a contractor to provide services
pursuant to an EPA award of financial assistance.

EPA FORM 6100-3 (DBE Subcontractor Performance Form)

479 of 574


--- page 480 ---
fe EPA United States ’ OMB Control No: 2090-0030
~~ Environmental Protection
LY 4 Agency Approved: 8/13/2013

Approval Expires; 8/31/2015

Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program
DBE Subcontractor Performance Form

I certify under penalty of perjury that the forgoing statements are true and correct, Signing this form does not
signify a commitment to utilize the subcontractors above. | am aware of that in the event ofa replacement ofa
subcontractor, I will adhere to the replacement requirements set forth in 40 CFR Part 33 Section 33.302 (c).

(7) | Pyime,Contractor Signature [| PrintName
VAN ALL
fas ie = —

| meee Tey

Subcontractor Signature

VY, "a

Senior Consultant

Tyler Rynberg

3/24/2020

The public reporting and recordkeeping burden for this collection of information is estimated to average three (3) hours
per response. Send comments on the Agency's need for this information, the accuracy of the provided burden
estimates, and any suggested methods for minimizing respondent burden, including through the use of automated
collection techniques to the Director, Collection Strategies Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (2822T), 1200
Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Washington, D.C. 20460. Include the OMB control number in any correspondence. Do not send
the completed form to this address.

EPA FORM 6100-3 (DBE Subcontractor Performance Form)

480 of 574


--- page 481 ---
re
7

WI

FPA Eevircnnnana Protection GMB Control Ne: 2090-0038
Agency Approved: 8/13/2013

Approval Expires: 8/31/2015

Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program
DBE Subcontractor Utilization Form

This form is intended to capture the prime contractor’s actual and/or anticipated use of identified certified DBE!
subcontractors? and the estimated dollar amount of each subcontract. An EPA Financial Assistance Agreement
Recipient must require its prime contractors to complete this form and include it in the bid or proposal package.
Prime contractors should also maintain a copy of this form on file.

Prime Contractor Name

Project Name
Anderson Pacific Engineering Construction, Inc. Underground Flow Equalization System

Bid/ Proposal No. Assistance Agreement ID No. (if known) | Point of Contact
Peter E. Anderson

Address
1390 Norman Avenue, Santa Clara, CA 95054
Telephone No. Email Address
408-970-9900 pea@andpac.com
Issuing/Funding Entity:
City of San Mateo / State Water Revolving Fund

I have identified potential DBE

If yes, please complete the table below. If no, please explain:
Est. Dollar
Amt
r
.
Morgner Construction Management 5055 Wilshore Blvd, Ste. 333, Los Angeles, CA 90036 $265,000 Yes
323-900-0030 / wcontreras@morgnerco,com
Continue on back if needed

1A DBE isa Disadvantaged, Minority, or Woman Business Enterprise that has been certified by an entity from which EPA accepts certifications as
described in 40 CFR 33.204-33.205 or certified by EPA. EPA accepts certifications from entities that meet or exceed EPA certification standards as
described in 40 CFR 33.202.

Subcontractor Name/
Company Name

Company Address/ Phone/ Email

Currently
DBE
Certified?

Sierra Traffic Markings, Inc. 9725 Del Rd. Ste. B, Roseville, CA 95747

916-774-9080 / ron@sierratrafficmarkings.com

James Long Construction Services 8560 Younger Creek Dr., Sacramento, CA 95828
916-379-9524 / btucker@hameslongconstruction.com

Subcontractor is defined as a company, firm, joint venture, or individual who enters into an agreement with a contractor to provide
services pursuant to an EPA award of financial assistance.

EPA FORM 6100-4 (DBE Subcontractor Utilization Form)

481 of 574


--- page 482 ---
Pe] EP. Pat tert OMB Control No: 2090-0030
yd WPA serenmeni sr Approved: 8/13/2013

Approval Expires: 8/31/2015

Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program
DBE Subcontractor Utilization Form

This form is intended to capture the prime contractor’s actual and/or anticipated use of identified certified DBE!
subcontractors? and the estimated dollar amount of each subcontract. An EPA Financial Assistance Agreement
Recipient must require its prime contractors to complete this form and include it in the bid or proposal package.
Prime contractors should also maintain a copy of this form on file.

Prime Contractor Name

Project Name
Anderson Pacific Engineering Construction, Inc. Underground Flow Equalization System
Bid/ Proposal No. Assistance Agreement ID No. (if known) | Point of Contact
Peter E. Anderson

1390 Norman Avenue, Santa Clara, CA 95054

Telephone No. Email Address
408-970-9900 pea@andpac.com

Issuing/Funding Entity

Address

City of San Mateo / State Water Revolving Fund

| have identified potential DBE
If yes, please complete the table below. If no, please explain:

Subcontractor Name/ Company Address/ Phone/ Email Est. Dollar Currently
Company Name Amt DBE
Certified?
2443 Fair Oaks Blvd. #150, Sacramento, CA 95825 $2,500 Yes
916-850-5758 / bidding@veruxinc.com
G2 Metal Fab $111,000
a

"A DBEisa Disadvantaged, Minority, or Woman Business Enterprise that has been certified by an entity from which EPA accepts certifications as
described in 40 CFR 33.204-33.205 or certified by EPA. EPA accepts certifications from entities that meet or exceed EPA certification standards as
described in 40 CFR 33,202.

4205 B St., Stockton, CA 95206 $111,000 DBE-Yes
925-443-7903 / knho@g2metalfab.com

2440 16th St. #317, San Francisco, CA 94103
415-946-8487 / tyler@vibrasure,com

Continue on back if needed

* Subcontractor is defined as a company, firm, joint venture, or individual who enters into an agreement with a contractor to provide
services pursuant to an EPA award of financial assistance.

EPA FORM 6100-4 (DBE Subcontractor Utilization Form)

482 of 574


--- page 483 ---
ara EPA United States . OMB Control No: 2090-0030
7 Environmental Protection
a Agency Approved: 8/13/2013

Approval Expires: 8/31/2015

Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program
DBE Subcontractor Utilization Form

I certify under penalty of perjury that the forgoing statements are true and correct. Signing this form does not
signify a commitment to utilize the subcontractors above. I am aware of that in the event of a replacement of a
subcontractor, | will adhere to the replacement requirements set forth in 40 CFR Part 33 Section 33.302 (c).

___ Prime Contractor Signature ___PrintName

 \Wrtae hl | Peter E. Anderson

a

3/2/20

The public reporting and recordkeeping burden for this collection of information is estimated to average three (3) hours
per response. Send comments on the Agency's need for this information, the accuracy of the provided burden
estimates, and any suggested methods for minimizing respondent burden, including through the use of automated
collection techniques to the Director, Collection Strategies Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (2822T), 1200
Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Washington, D.C. 20460. Include the OMB control number in any correspondence. Do not send
the completed form to this address.

EPA FORM 6100-4 (DBE Subcontractor Utilization Form)

483 of 574


--- page 484 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-2906
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
May 4, 2020 
SUBJECT:
North Shoreview Flood Improvements Project – Construction Contract 
RECOMMENDATION:
Award a contract to Anderson Pacific Engineering Construction, Inc. for construction of the North Shoreview Flood 
Improvements Project in an amount of $23,927,600; establish a contingency reserve of $2,390,000 for a total amount not 
to exceed $26,317,600; authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the form presented and 
issue change orders within the contingency amount; and adopt a Resolution to authorize an appropriation in the amount of 
$5,100,000 from Flood and Street Bonds, as well as transfer $1,323,000 from the Trash Capture Device at Coyote Point 
Project and $150,000 from Trash Recapture Project to the North Shoreview Flood Improvement Project.  
BACKGROUND:
In October 2001, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) issued a new Flood Insurance Rate Map for the City of 
San Mateo, which added a portion of the City into a Special Flood Hazard Area. Properties within the Flood Hazard Area 
that have federally-backed mortgages are required to purchase flood insurance.
The North Shoreview Flood Improvement Project was designed to remove 1,600 residential properties in the North 
Shoreview and North Central neighborhoods from the Flood Hazard Area by protecting those properties from “100-year 
storm floods”. This project is similar to the South Bayfront Levee Improvement projects completed in 2010. The full scope 
of work includes raising a 1,300-foot levee segment located between the San Mateo and Burlingame border off Airport 
Boulevard and adjacent to the Peninsula Humane Society. The work also includes updating electrical controls, correcting 
structural deficiencies, installing a backup power generator, and increasing pumping capacity at the Coyote Point and 
Poplar Avenue pump stations. During 2018, the City also entered into a cooperative agreement with the California 
Department of Transportation to construct trash capture devices, including one at the Coyote Point pump station.  As a 
result of this agreement, the City anticipates receiving $1,473,000 (currently appropriated in projects as $1,323,000 and 
$150,000) in funding that will be applied toward to the North Shoreview Flood Improvement project.
The City has been working with local agencies on securing property rights and seeking approvals from state/national 
regulatory agencies. In July 2019, the City of San Mateo and the County of San Mateo executed an agreement to transfer 
real property from the County to the City for the construction and perpetual maintenance of the pump station facilities 
and levee. In addition, the City is also required to coordinate and seek permission from state regulatory agencies on 
projects that could have an impact on the environmentally sensitive areas near the San Francisco Bay. To date, the City has 
received concurrence and authorization from six out of seven agencies and is currently awaiting final comments from the 
Bay Conversation Development Commission (BCDC). The project was approved at the BCDC meeting on April 16, 2020 and 
BCDC final permits were received by Public Works on 4/29/20. 
484 of 574

--- page 485 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Bids Received and Evaluation of Contractors 
A competitive public process was used to obtain bids. On March 5, 2020, six firms submitted bid proposals. The lowest 
responsible bid was Anderson Pacific’s bid for $24,327,600, which exceeded the engineer’s estimate of $19,500,000. On 
April 6, 2020, City Council adopted a resolution to reject all bids and to negotiate a contract directly with Anderson Pacific. 
Letter from Building and Trade Council
On April 20, 2020, the Buidling and Trades Council of San Mateo County sent the City Council a letter expressing concerns 
about negotiating and potentially awarding the contract to Anderson Pacific rather than re-bidding the project. The City 
Attorney’s office reviewed that letter and determined that the City Council is not legally precluded from awarding the 
proposed contract.
Contract Negotiations 
Staff conducted value engineering negotiations with Anderson Pacific. Certain aspects of the project were redesigned to 
maintain compliance with the conditions of approval while still meeting the overall goals of the project. The value-
engineered package is $400,000 less than Anderson Pacific’s previous low bid. Specifically, Anderson Pacific identified a 
method of treating the existing bay mud to make it suitable for fill material that will decrease cost by approximately 
$300,000 and eliminate over 2,000 truck trips (and the resulting greenhouse gas emissions) associated with the off-haul of 
dirt. The shoring design was also modified to allow for an alternative construction method that reduced shoring costs by 
approximately $100,000.  
Staff recommends award of the contract to Anderson Pacific and to establish a contingency reserve of $2,390,000. The 
North Shoreview project is deemed a high priority for the protection of San Mateo residents from 100-year storm floods 
and because of the coordination required with local agencies and seven state/national regulatory agencies. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The total project budget, including soft costs and construction support services, is $30,110,111.  To date, the “Engineering 
Service during Construction” cost of $515,970 has already been encumbered.  The remaining balance of $29,593,141
will be funded from the existing North Shoreview Flood Improvement Project, the existing Coyote Park/Poplar Pump 
Station Project, transfers from various trash capture project accounts established based on the agreement with Caltrans, 
and an appropriation from Flood and Street Bonds.  A summary of existing project balances for the various funding sources 
to fund the remaining balance can be seen below.
Table 1: Project Funding Sources
Funding Source
Amount
468202- North Shoreview Flood Improvement
 $             22,970,000 
468201 - Coyote Park/Poplar Pump Station
 $                      55,000 
460052 – Transfer from Trash Capture Coyote Point
 $                1,323,000 
461106 – Transfer from Trash Recapture
 $                   150,000 
Appropriation of Flood and Street Bonds
 $                5,100,000 
Total
 $             29,598,000 
Staff requests the City Council’s approval to appropriate $5,100,000 from Flood and Street Bonds and transfer $1,323,000 
from the Trash Capture Device at Coyote Point Project and $150,000 from the Trash Recapture Project to cover increases 
in cost for a combined total of $6,573,000. 
After this appropriation and transfer, sufficient funds will be available in the North Shoreview Flood Improvement Project 
(468202) for this agreement. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Under section 15074 of the CEQA Guidelines, the City Council adopted a negative declaration for this project on October 19, 
2015. 
485 of 574

--- page 486 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution 
Att 2 - Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Jimmy Vo, Senior Engineer 
jvo@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7319 
Matthew Zucca, Deputy Director 
mzucca@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7308
486 of 574

--- page 487 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2020)
AUTHORIZING A APPROPRIATION IN THE AMOUNT OF $6,573,000 FROM THE FLOOD & STREET BONDS, TRASH 
CAPTURE DEVICE AT COYOTE POINT AND TRASH RECAPTURE/POPLAR-DORE PROJECTS 
FOR ADDITIONAL FUNDING TO THE 
NORTH SHOREVIEW FLOOD IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT
WHEREAS, the North Shoreview Flood Improvement project was designed to protect northern San 
Mateo residents from 100-year storm floods and remove a portion of residential parcels out of Federal 
Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA); and
WHEREAS, on March 5, 2020, the City received a low and responsive bid from Anderson Pacific 
Engineering Construction for $24,377,600; and
WHEREAS, on April 6, 2020, City Council rejected all bids and approved negotiation with the lowest 
responsible bidder after thorough analysis of all the bid results; and 
WHEREAS, on April 16, 2020, Anderson Pacific provided a revised contract amount of $23,927,600; and 
WHEREAS, the total project budget, including soft costs and construction support services, is 
$30,110,111 and additional funding it required to fully fund the project; and
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
An appropriation of $150,000 from the Trash Recapture Project (461106) to the North Shoreview 
Flood Improvement Project is authorized.
2.
An appropriation of $1,323,000 from the Capture Device at Coyote Point Project (460052) to the 
North Shoreview Flood Improvements Project is authorized.
3.
An appropriation of $5,100,000 from the Flood and Street bonds is to the North Shoreview Flood 
Improvement Project is authorized
487 of 574

--- page 488 ---
A-13 
C:\Users\CAnderson\OneDrive - Schaaf & Wheeler\North Shoreview Conform Plans and Specs\Specifications\North Shoreview - Contract Front 
End_Conformed.docx 
 
AGREEMENT WITH ANDERSON PACIFIC ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION, INC. 
FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT 
FOR 
NORTH SHOREVIEW FLOOD IMPROVEMENTS 
 
CITY PROJECT NO. 468202 
 
 
THIS AGREEMENT FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS (“Agreement”), made and entered into 
in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, by and between the CITY 
OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, 
(hereinafter called "City") and ANDERSON PACIFIC ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION, INC., a 
corporation, with offices at 1390 Norman Avenue, Santa Clara, CA 95054 (hereinafter called 
"Contractor"), entered into this day of _______________.   
 
RECITALS: 
 
(a) City has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize construction of the public work 
and improvements or other matters herein provided, and execution of this Agreement. 
 
(b) A notice was duly published for bids for the contract for the improvement 
hereinafter described. 
 
(c) After notice duly given, on the date hereof, the City awarded the contract for the 
construction of the improvements hereinafter described to Contractor. 
 
IT IS AGREED, as follows: 
 
1. 
Scope of Work. Contractor shall perform the work according to the Contract Book 
entitled: 
 
NORTH SHOREVIEW FLOOD IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT 
 
CITY PROJECT NO. 468202 
 
2. 
Contract Price. City shall pay, and the Contractor shall accept, the sum of twenty-
three million nine hundred twenty-seven thousand six hundred dollars ($23,927,600) in full 
payment for the work set forth above. 
Said price is determined by the prices contained in Contractor's bid, attached as Exhibit 
B, and shall be paid as described in the Contract Book. In the event work is performed or 
materials furnished in addition to or a reduction of those set forth in Contractor's bid and the 
specifications herein, such work and materials will be paid for as described in the Contract 
Book. 
 
3. 
The Contract Documents. The complete contract consists of the following 
documents:  This Agreement; the Notice Inviting Sealed Proposals; the Accepted Proposal; the 
Contract Book which includes the Special Provisions and Contract Drawings, Addendums 
488 of 574

--- page 489 ---
A-14 
C:\Users\CAnderson\OneDrive - Schaaf & Wheeler\North Shoreview Conform Plans and Specs\Specifications\North Shoreview - Contract Front 
End_Conformed.docx 
 
Number 1 & 2 issued to the Contract Book, the Greenbook Standard Specifications for Public 
Works Construction, 2012 Edition; the Faithful Performance Bond, and the Labor and Material 
Bond. 
All rights and obligations of City and Contractor are fully set forth and described in the 
contract documents.  The contract documents constitute the entire contract between the 
parties hereto pertaining to the subject matter hereof, fully supersede any and all prior 
understandings, representations, warranties and agreements between the parties hereto, or 
any of them, pertaining to the subject matter hereof, and may be modified only by written 
agreement signed by all of the parties hereto. 
 
All of the above-named documents are complementary and are intended to operate in 
harmony, so that any work called for in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be 
executed the same as if mentioned in all said documents. In the event of any variation or 
discrepancy between any portion of this Agreement and any portion of the contract documents, 
this Agreement shall prevail. The precedence of the remaining contract documents will be as 
specified in the Contract Book. 
 
4. 
Schedule. All work shall be performed in accordance with the schedule provided 
pursuant to the Contract Book. 
 
5. 
Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, 
City shall immediately give written notice thereof to Contractor and Contractor's sureties, and the 
sureties shall have the right to take over and perform the Agreement, provided, however, that if 
the sureties, within 5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give City written 
notice of their intention to take over the performance thereof within 5 days after notice to City of 
such election, City may take over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or 
by any other method it may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of Contractor, 
and the sureties shall be liable to City for any excess cost or damages occasioned City thereby; and, 
in such event, City may, without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing 
the work, such materials, appliances, plant and other property belonging to Contractor as may be 
on the site of the work and necessary therefor. 
 
6. 
Legal Workday - Penalties for Violation. Eight hours of labor shall constitute a legal 
day's work. Contractor shall not require more than 8 hours labor in a day and 40 hours in a 
calendar week from any person employed by Contractor in the performance of such work 
unless such excess work is compensated for at not less than 1-1/2 times the basic rate of pay. 
Contractor shall forfeit as a penalty to City the sum of $25.00 for each laborer, workman or 
mechanic employed in the execution of this contract by Contractor, or by any subcontractor for 
each calendar day during which such laborer, workman or mechanic is required or permitted to 
labor more than 8 hours in any calendar day and 40 hours in any one calendar week in violation 
of the provisions of Sections 1810 and 1816, inclusive, of the Labor Code of the State of 
California. 
 
7. 
Prevailing Wage Scale. The prevailing wage scale as determined by the Director of 
Industrial Relations of the State of California, in force on the day the bid was announced, will be 
the minimum paid to all craftsmen and laborers working on this project. Contractor shall also 
489 of 574

--- page 490 ---
A-15 
C:\Users\CAnderson\OneDrive - Schaaf & Wheeler\North Shoreview Conform Plans and Specs\Specifications\North Shoreview - Contract Front 
End_Conformed.docx 
 
require any subcontractors who work or provide any services related to the project to pay all 
persons performing labor or rendering service under said subcontract or other arrangement at 
least the general prevailing rate of wages, determined as set forth herein for the respective crafts 
and employments, including such wages for holiday and overtime work. A copy of the correct 
determination will be posted at the job site. It is understood that it is the responsibility of 
Contractor to determine the correct scale. Copies of the prevailing wage rates are on file at the 
City Clerk's office, however, errors or defects in the materials in the City Clerk's office will not 
excuse a bidder's failure to comply with the actual scale then in force. Contractor must submit 
certified payrolls to the Department of Industrial Relations in accordance with Labor Code Section 
1776. 
 
8. 
Senate Bill 854 Compliance Required.  In accordance with Labor Code Sections 
1725.5 and 1771.1, all contractors and subcontractors must be registered with the Department 
of Industrial Relations. In accordance with Labor Code Section 1771.4 the contractor must post 
job site notices as required by regulation and this project will be subject to compliance 
monitoring and enforcement by the Department of Industrial Relations. 
 
9. 
Insurance. The Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract 
and five years thereafter the insurance as specified in Exhibit A of this agreement. 
 
10. Hold Harmless and Indemnity Provision. Contractor agrees to hold harmless, 
defend, and indemnify the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from 
and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising from performance of 
this Agreement, including claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense caused or claimed to be 
caused by passive negligence of the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents; provided, however that this provision does not apply to claims, loss, liability, damage or 
expense arising from (a) the sole negligence or willful misconduct of the City or (b) the active 
negligence of the City; further provided, that this provision shall not affect the validity of any 
insurance contract, workers’ compensation or other agreement issued by an admitted insurer 
as defined by the Insurance Code. Contractor will defend City of San Mateo, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents, against any such claims. 
 
11. Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5,000 shall be 
recoverable as costs (that is, by the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or 
actions to enforce the provisions of the contract documents. The above $5,000 limit is the total of 
attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless 
of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals or actions. It is the intent that neither party to this 
Agreement shall have to pay the other more than $5,000 for attorney fees arising out of an 
action, or actions, to enforce the provisions of the contract documents. The parties expect and 
hope there will be no litigation and that any differences will be resolved amicably. 
 
12. Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request 
that it be submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a 
request. The mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an 
agreement, the parties shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American 
490 of 574

--- page 491 ---
A-16 
C:\Users\CAnderson\OneDrive - Schaaf & Wheeler\North Shoreview Conform Plans and Specs\Specifications\North Shoreview - Contract Front 
End_Conformed.docx 
 
Arbitration Association, the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-
upon service. The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed 
the prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in 
mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation 
process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by 
the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
13. Provisions Cumulative. The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in 
addition to and not in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to City. 
 
14. Notices. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by 
certified mail, postage prepaid.  
 
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed as follows: 
 
Director of Public Works  
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th 
Avenue  
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Notices required to be given to Contractor shall be addressed as appears in the 
signature block as shown on the Bidder's Statement. 
 
15. Interpretation. As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular 
includes the plural and vice versa. 
 
16. Governing Law and Venue. This Agreement, the contract documents, and the 
performance hereon shall be governed, interpreted, construed, and regulated by the laws of 
the State of California. The parties agree that any action related to this Agreement or the 
contract documents will be venued in the County of San Mateo. 
 
17. Headings. The title and headings of the various sections of this Agreement and the 
contract documents are intended solely for convenience of reference and are not intended to 
explain, modify, or place any construction on any provisions. 
 
18. No Partnership or Agency. Nothing in this Agreement nor the contract documents 
shall be deemed to constitute a partnership in law between City and Contractor, or any sub-
contractor, to constitute either party as an agent of the other for any purpose; or to entitle 
either party to commit or bind the other in any manner unless expressly agreed upon in the 
contract documents. 
 
19. Severability. If any part or provision of the contract documents is determined by 
any court to be illegal, invalid, or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the contract documents 
491 of 574

--- page 492 ---
A-17 
C:\Users\CAnderson\OneDrive - Schaaf & Wheeler\North Shoreview Conform Plans and Specs\Specifications\North Shoreview - Contract Front 
End_Conformed.docx 
 
shall continue to be valid as to its other provisions and the remainder of the affected provision, 
unless it can be concluded from the circumstances that, in the absence of the provisions found 
to be null and void, the parties would not have entered into the contract documents. The 
parties shall use all reasonable efforts to replace any and all provisions or parts found to be null 
and void with provisions that are valid under the applicable law and come closest to their 
original intention. 
 
20. Waiver. None of the following shall operate as a waiver of any provision of the 
contract documents, or of any power herein reserved by the City, or any right to damages herein 
provided: 1) inspection by the City or its authorized agents or representatives; 2) any order or 
certificate for payment, or any payment for, or acceptance of the whole or any part of the work by 
the City; 3) an extension of time; or 4) any position taken by the City or its authorized agents or 
representatives. 
 
21. Warranty. Contractor warrants and guarantees that the materials and equipment 
provided shall be at least of the quality specified and new unless otherwise required or permitted 
by the contract documents, and, if no quality is specified, then the materials and equipment shall 
be of commercial grade, suitable for heavy public use in facilities of similar size and complexity, 
that the work performed hereunder will be free from defects, and that the work will conform to 
the requirements of the contract documents. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
 
492 of 574

--- page 493 ---
A-18 
C:\Users\CAnderson\OneDrive - Schaaf & Wheeler\North Shoreview Conform Plans and Specs\Specifications\North Shoreview - Contract Front 
End_Conformed.docx 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement between the CITY OF SAN MATEO and 
ANDERSON PACIFIC ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION, INC. has been duly executed by the parties 
hereinabove named, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR 
 
 
 
 
Brad Underwood 
Public Works Director 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Peter E. Anderson 
Its Authorized Agent 
President 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 
2) Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below. 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
Caio Arellano 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
 
Anne P. Anderson 
Secretary 
 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: Insurance Requirements 
Exhibit B: Schedule of Contract Prices 
 
 
493 of 574

--- page 494 ---
A-19 
C:\Users\CAnderson\OneDrive - Schaaf & Wheeler\North Shoreview Conform Plans and Specs\Specifications\North Shoreview - Contract Front 
End_Conformed.docx 
 
 
Exhibit A - Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts 
 
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract, and for 10 years 
thereafter, insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may 
arise from or in connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the Contractor, his 
agents, representatives, employees, or subcontractors.  
MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:  
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, 
property damage, bodily injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than 
$5,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit applies, either the general 
aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.   
2. Automobile Liability:  Insurance Services Office Form CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto), 
with limits no less than $5,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.  
3. Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory 
Limits, and Employers’ Liability insurance with a limit of no less than $1,000,000 per 
accident for bodily injury or disease.  
4. Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) insurance utilizing an “All Risk” (Special Perils) 
coverage form, with limits equal to the completed value of the project and no coinsurance 
penalty provisions. 
5. Surety Bonds as described below. 
6. Professional Liability (if Design/Build), with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence 
or claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate. 
7. Contractors’ Pollution Legal Liability and/or Asbestos Legal Liability and/or Errors and 
Omissions (if project involves environmental hazards) with limits no less than $1,000,000 
per occurrence or claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate. 
If the contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown 
above, the Entity requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or higher limits 
maintained by the contractor. Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified 
minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall be available to the Entity. 
Self-Insured Retentions  
Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the Entity. At the option of the 
Entity, either: the contractor shall cause the insurer shall to reduce or eliminate such self-
insured retentions as respects the Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; or 
the Contractor shall provide a financial guarantee satisfactory to the Entity guaranteeing 
payment of losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. The 
policy language shall provide, or be endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be 
satisfied by either the named insured or Entity. 
 
494 of 574

--- page 495 ---
A-20 
C:\Users\CAnderson\OneDrive - Schaaf & Wheeler\North Shoreview Conform Plans and Specs\Specifications\North Shoreview - Contract Front 
End_Conformed.docx 
 
 
Other Insurance Provisions  
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
1. The Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as 
additional insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or 
operations performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts, or 
equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations and automobiles 
owned, leased, hired, or borrowed by or on behalf of the Contractor. General liability 
coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance 
(at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10, CG 20 26, CG 20 33, 
or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
2. For any claims related to this project, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be 
primary insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the Entity, 
its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance 
maintained by the Entity, its officers, officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess of 
the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.  
3. Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that coverage shall not be 
canceled, except with notice to the Entity. 
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) Insurance  
Contractor may submit evidence of Builder’s Risk insurance in the form of Course of 
Construction coverage. Such coverage shall name the Entity as a loss payee as their interest 
may appear. 
If the project does not involve new or major reconstruction, at the option of the Entity, an 
Installation Floater may be acceptable. For such projects, a Property Installation Floater shall be 
obtained that provides for the improvement, remodel, modification, alteration, conversion or 
adjustment to existing buildings, structures, processes, machinery and equipment.  The 
Property Installation Floater shall provide property damage coverage for any building, 
structure, machinery or equipment damaged, impaired, broken, or destroyed during the 
performance of the Work, including during transit, installation, and testing at the Entity’s site. 
Claims Made Policies – (If at all possible, avoid; rather use occurrence-type CGL policies) 
If any coverage required is written on a claims-made coverage form:  
1. The retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the execution date of 
the contract or the beginning of contract work. 
2. Insurance must be maintained, and evidence of insurance must be provided for at least 
five (5) years after completion of contract work.  
3. If coverage is canceled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made 
policy form with a retroactive date prior to the contract effective, or start of work date, 
the Contractor must purchase extended reporting period coverage for a minimum of five 
(5) years after completion of contract work.  
4. A copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the Entity for review.  
495 of 574

--- page 496 ---
A-21 
C:\Users\CAnderson\OneDrive - Schaaf & Wheeler\North Shoreview Conform Plans and Specs\Specifications\North Shoreview - Contract Front 
End_Conformed.docx 
 
5. If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification/remediation, the 
Contractors Pollution Liability policy shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos 
exclusions. If the services involve mold identification/remediation, the Contractors 
Pollution Liability policy shall not contain a mold exclusion, and the definition of Pollution 
shall include microbial matter, including mold.  
Acceptability of Insurers  
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a 
current A.M. Best rating of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the Entity.  
Waiver of Subrogation  
Contractor hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation which any insurer of Contractor may 
acquire from Contractor by virtue of the payment of any loss. Contractor agrees to obtain any 
endorsement that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation. The Workers’ 
Compensation policy shall be endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of the Entity for 
all work performed by the Contractor, its employees, agents and subcontractors.  
Verification of Coverage  
Contractor shall furnish the Entity with original Certificates of Insurance including all 
required amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting 
coverage required by this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page 
of the CGL policy listing all policy endorsements to Entity before work begins. However, 
failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the 
Contractor’s obligation to provide them.  The Entity reserves the right to require 
complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements, 
required by these specifications, at any time. 
     
Subcontractors  
Contractor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all the 
requirements stated herein, and Contractor shall ensure that Entity is an additional insured on 
insurance required from subcontractors. For CGL coverage subcontractors shall provide coverage 
with a form at least as broad as CG 20 38 04 13. 
Surety Bonds  
Contractor shall provide the following Surety Bonds: 
1. Bid bond 
2. Performance bond 
3. Payment bond 
4. Maintenance bond 
The Payment Bond and the Performance Bond shall be in a sum equal to the contract price. If the 
Performance Bond provides for a one-year warranty a separate Maintenance Bond is not 
necessary.  If the warranty period specified in the contract is for longer than one year a 
Maintenance Bond equal to 10% of the contract price is required.  Bonds shall be duly executed 
by a responsible corporate surety, authorized to issue such bonds in the State of California and 
secured through an authorized agent with an office in California. 
 
 
496 of 574

--- page 497 ---
A-22 
C:\Users\CAnderson\OneDrive - Schaaf & Wheeler\North Shoreview Conform Plans and Specs\Specifications\North Shoreview - Contract Front 
End_Conformed.docx 
 
Special Risks or Circumstances 
Entity reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of 
the risk, prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other circumstances. 
 
THE REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY BLANK 
497 of 574

--- page 498 ---
Schedule of Contract Prices 
 
B-1 
 
SCHEDULE OF CONTRACT PRICES 
(Exhibit B) 
 
NORTH SHOREVIEW FLOOD IMPROVEMENTS 
COYOTE POINT LEVEE IMPROVEMENTS AND PUMP STATION REPLACEMENT 
CITY PROJECT NO. 468202 
 
ITEM 
NO. 
DESCRIPTION 
OF WORK 
EST. 
QTY. 
UNIT 
UNIT 
PRICE 
TOTAL 
COST 
1 
Mobilization 
1 
LS 
$550,000 
$550,000 
2 
Bonds and Insurance  
1 
LS 
$250,000 
$250,000 
3 
Pedestrian and Traffic Control 
1 
LS 
$305,000 
$305,000 
4 
Work Planning and Submittals 
1 
LS 
$50,000 
$50,000 
5 
Erosion Control and SWPP Measures 
1 
LS 
$165,000 
$165,000 
6 
Temporary Shoring 
1 
LS 
$50,000 
$50,000 
7 
Cofferdams and Dewatering 
1 
LS 
$835,000 
$835,000 
8 
Site Preparation, Clearing, and Demolition 
1 
LS 
$300,000 
$300,000 
9 
Compacted Levee Fill 
1 
LS 
$1,047,500 
$1,047,500 
10 
Rock Slope Protection 
365 
TON 
$200 
$73,000 
11 
Resurfacing Bay Trail  
1 
LS 
$121,600 
$121,600 
12 
Bay Trail Appurtenances 
1 
LS 
$80,000 
$80,000 
13 
Pump Station and Outfall Structures 
1 
LS 
$3,135,000 
$3,135,000 
14 
Transformer Pad Structure 
1 
LS 
$125,000 
$125,000 
15 
Building Improvements 
1 
LS 
$1,275,000 
$1,275,000 
16 
Trash Capture Device and Diversion Weir 
1 
LS 
$1,200,000 
$1,200,000 
17 
Submersible Axial Flow Pumps and Tubes 
3 
EA 
$396,500 
$1,189,500 
18 
Low Flow Submersible Pump, Discharge 
Piping and Fittings 
1 
LS 
$106,000 
$106,000 
19 
HDPE Discharge Pipes 
1 
LS 
$250,000 
$250,000 
20 
Main Switchboard and Motor Control Center 
1 
LS 
$364,000 
$364,000 
21 
1 MW Standby Engine-Generator and 
Appurtenances 
1 
LS 
$315,000 
$315,000 
22 
Electrical Work 
1 
LS 
$800,000 
$800,000 
23 
Inlet Channel Excavation 
1 
LS 
$115,000 
$115,000 
24 
Bioretention Areas 
1 
LS 
$28,000 
$28,000 
25 
Mitigation Planting 
1 
LS 
$145,000 
$145,000 
26 
Paving and Site Restoration 
1 
LS 
$100,000 
$100,000 
27 
One-Year Plant Maintenance 
1 
LS 
$25,000 
$25,000 
TOTAL THIS WORK 
 
 
 
$12,999,600 
498 of 574

--- page 499 ---
Schedule of Contract Prices 
 
B-2 
 
SCHEDULE OF CONTRACT PRICES 
(Exhibit B) 
 
NORTH SHOREVIEW FLOOD IMPROVEMENTS 
POPLAR AVENUE PUMP STATION REPLACEMENT 
CITY PROJECT NO. 468202 
 
ITEM 
NO. 
DESCRIPTION 
OF WORK 
EST. 
QTY. 
UNIT 
UNIT 
PRICE 
TOTAL 
COST 
1 
Mobilization 
1 
LS 
$450,000 
$450,000 
2 
Bonds and Insurance  
1 
LS 
$220,000 
$220,000 
3 
Pedestrian and Traffic Control 
1 
LS 
$23,000 
$23,000 
4 
Work Planning and Submittals 
1 
LS 
$25,000 
$25,000 
5 
Erosion Control and SWPP Measures 
1 
LS 
$80,000 
$80,000 
6 
Temporary Shoring 
1 
LS 
$50,000 
$50,000 
7 
Cofferdams and Dewatering 
1 
LS 
$810,000 
$810,000 
8 
Site Preparation, Clearing and Demolition 
1 
LS 
$270,000 
$270,000 
9 
Compacted Levee Fill 
1 
LS 
$300,000 
$300,000 
10 
Rock Slope Protection 
100 
TON 
$260 
$26,000 
11 
Resurfacing Bay Trail  
1 
LS 
$315,000 
$315,000 
12 
Pump Station and Outfall Structures 
1 
LS 
$3,288,000 
$3,288,000 
13 
Transformer Pad Structure 
1 
LS 
$200,000 
$200,000 
14 
Building Improvements 
1 
LS 
$1,210,000 
$1,210,000 
15 
Submersible Axial Flow Pumps and Tubes 
4 
EA 
$380,000 
$1,520,000 
16 
Low Flow Submersible Pump, Discharge 
Piping and Fittings 
1 
LS 
$107,000 
$107,000 
17 
HDPE Discharge Pipes 
1 
LS 
$260,000 
$260,000 
18 
Main Switchboard and Motor Control Center 
1 
LS 
$400,000 
$400,000 
19 
1.25 MW Standby Engine-Generator and 
Appurtenances 
1 
LS 
$370,000 
$370,000 
20 
Electrical Work 
1 
LS 
$920,000 
$920,000 
21 
Forebay Excavation 
1 
LS 
$24,000 
$24,000 
22 
Bioretention Areas 
1 
LS 
$16,000 
$16,000 
23 
Mitigation Planting 
1 
LS 
$6,000 
$6,000 
24 
Paving and Site Restoration 
1 
LS 
$28,000 
$28,000 
25 
One-Year Plant Maintenance 
1 
LS 
$10,000 
$10,000 
TOTAL THIS WORK 
 
 
 
$10,928,000 
TOTAL THIS CONTRACT 
 
 
 
$23,927,600 
 
499 of 574

--- page 500 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 20-2998
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Department
MEETING DATE:
May 04, 2020 
SUBJECT:
COVID-19 Update (#7)
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive update on operational impacts and other City efforts related to COVID-19 and confirm rules and regulations issued 
by the City Manager acting as the Director of Emergency Services in response to declared emergency. 
BACKGROUND:
On March 4, 2020, the Governor proclaimed a state of emergency in response to the outbreak of respiratory illness due to 
a novel coronavirus now referred to as COVID-19. As a consequence of this proclamation the City Manager, acting as the 
City’s Director of Emergency Services, was authorized to make and issue rules and regulations on matters reasonably 
related to the protection of life and property as affected by such emergency. On March 16th, 2020, the County of San 
Mateo Health Officer issued an order to "shelter in place", effective March 17, 2020 at 12:01 am. This order, amongst 
other things, ceased non-essential activities in the County in an effort to mitigate the impacts of COVID-19. On March 31st, 
this order was extended through May 3rd. On April 27th, the Health Officer announced that the shelter-in-place order 
would be extended again through the end of May. The City Council also declared a local health emergency on March 16th. 
In addition to positioning the City for potential mutual aid and cost recovery opportunities, the emergency proclamation 
also provides the City Manager broader authority to be able to expeditiously address issues related to the emergency. 
With that said, actions taken by the City Manager outside of the general authority of the duties provided for in the City 
Charter are subject to confirmation by Council as soon as practicable. Since March 23rd, the City Manager has provided a 
weekly update on the operational impact of COVID-19 and the actions that have been taken under the authority of the 
emergency proclamation. The City Council has subsequently provided confirmation of the actions the City Manager has 
taken to date. Topics for Council review and consideration at the May 4th COVID-19 update include, but are not 
necessarily limited to, information on the latest shelter-in-place order and its impact on City operations; a follow up from 
the City Attorney on the question raised about being able to reimburse childcare providers retroactively for capital 
improvements made to their facilities; and information regarding a special leave provided to employees designated as 
emergency responders. Also attached for your information is a letter I sent to Governor Newsom at the request of the 
League of California Cities. This letter requests consideration of financial support to cities under 500,000 in population. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for receiving this informational report. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
500 of 574

--- page 501 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Letter to Governor Newsom
STAFF CONTACT
Drew Corbett, City Manager 
dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7002
501 of 574

--- page 502 ---
OFFICE OF THE CITY MANAGER 330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, California 94403
Telephone (650) 522-7000
FAX: (650) 522-7001

www.cityofsanmateo.org

May 1, 2020

Honorable Gavin Newsom
Governor, State of California
State Capitol

Sacramento, CA 95814

VIA E-mail: ExternalAffairs@gov.ca.gov

Dear Governor Newsom:

The City of San Mateo thanks you for your leadership and efforts to protect and support
Californians during this unprecedented public health crisis. Cities remain on the front line helping
residents stay safe and in their homes, delivering emergency services, and supporting local
businesses and community organizations. However, as emergency costs continue to grow, city
revenues to fund local services are plummeting. COVID-19 is having devastating impacts on city
budgets and services statewide.

Based on the League of California Cities analysis, California cities are projecting a nearly $7 billion
general revenue shortfall over the next two fiscal years. This shortfall will grow by billions of
dollars if stay-at-home orders to protect public health extend into the summer months and
beyond. The City of San Mateo projects that these shortfalls will impact our core city services
and our ability to fund critical capital and infrastructure work.

Since the beginning of the COVID-19 crisis, the City of San Mateo has stepped up to protect and
serve our community. Some of the actions we have taken include contributing $400,000 towards
grants for small businesses, contributing $440,000 to rental assistance for our residents,
packaging and delivering meals and crucial supplies to our most vulnerable populations, and
redeploying members of our workforce to assist local non-profits in providing core services to
those in need. These necessary measures our city has taken are costly. In order to continue to
be a full partner with the state in saving lives, protecting our communities, and ultimately
recovering from this crisis, we need your help.

The City of San Mateo is calling on you to immediately support the following actions:

e Establish at least a $7 billion city revenue stabilization fund for direct aid to all cities to
address the general revenue shortfall over the next two fiscal years;

&nbsp;
502 of&nbsp;574


--- page 503 ---
e Allocate a share of the State’s $8.4 billion CARES Act funding for cities with populations
under 500,000 to support COVID-19 expenses; and

e Create a COVID-19 financing vehicle that all cities can access to support immediate cash
flow needs.

The City of San Mateo appreciates your consideration of our requests and looks forward to
further discussing in the coming days how together we can continue to best protect Californians
and reopen our economy. Thank you again for your leadership and partnership during these
uncertain times.

Sincerely,

pew OF

Drew Corbett
City Manager
City of San Mateo

cc: Senator Jerry Hill
Assemblymember Kevin Mullin
Seth Miller, League of California Cities, smiller@cacities.org
Meg Desmond, League of California Cities, cityletters@cacities.org

&nbsp;
503 of&nbsp;574


--- page 504 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 20-3004
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Attorney Department
MEETING DATE:
May 04, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Calling Election on Ballot Measure relating to the Extension of Measure P Policies
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive report from the City Attorney and provide direction to City staff on scheduling the action calling the regular 
election on the qualified ballot measure on a future City Council agenda.
BACKGROUND:
At its April 27 special meeting, the City Council discussed concerns from members of the public about whether the 
qualified ballot measure extending the Measure P sunset date would be placed on the ballot this November. Council 
members expressed their understanding of the legal obligation to place the measure on the ballot and asked the City 
Attorney about whether action could be taken to call the election at a time earlier than usual. City elections are almost 
always consolidated with elections conducted by the San Mateo County Elections Officer. By law the City Council must 
adopt a resolution requesting consolidation of the City election with other elections no later than 88 days before the 
November election date. The City Council typically takes this action at its last regular meeting before the 88th day cutoff in 
late July. The Council asked whether this action could be taken earlier than at its July meeting. The City Attorney has 
researched this question and concludes that this action may be taken at any regular council meeting between the present 
date and its July 20 meeting. In light of this, staff requests direction from the City Council on when to schedule the action 
to call the election on the ballot measure.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Deciding when to take action to place the ballot measure on a future City Council agenda will have no budget impact.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Public Comment
STAFF CONTACT
Shawn Mason, City Attorney 
smason@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7020
504 of 574

--- page 505 ---
Patrice Olds
aed ten nena eniamenn a emminenensnnenntenin aietietesbbade ad ne)

From: Danielle Mosk wit ili
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2 :

To: City Council (San Mateo)

Ce: Patrice Olds

Subject: Measure P Must Be Put On November Ballot
Dear City Counsel,

iam writing to implore you to put Measure P on the ballot as was promised, Over 7,000 residents spoke and are legally
entitled to the right to vote in November.

Using the Covid crisis as an excuse to delay the legal requirement to put the measure on the ballot is completely
disgraceful.

The rights of residents matter and the law must be followed.

Danielle Moskowitz & Jennifer Sarver

&nbsp;
505 of&nbsp;574


--- page 506 ---
Patrice Olds
Etc SS Sse SP

From:

Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 5:28 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo}

Ce: Patrice Olds

Dear San Mateo City Council:

| strongly support putting the extension of Measure P on the ballot and so did Joe Goethals at a Council meeting on
8/16/2019. Referring to placing the extensions of Measure P on the ballot:

his quote by then-councilman Joe Goethals at a Council reads "I do very much want to honor the signatures on the
initiative. People should leave here tonight understanding at a minimum that the initiative as it is written will be placed
on the ballot in 2020,"

The debate on this subject has already been had! Discussion and community activity for this measure is NOT a City
Council function! He's suggesting not putting it on the ballot because the developer-sponsored petition got stalled in their
efforts to get needed signatures (by COVID-19).

The citizens have done ALL that was legally required to get the Measure P extension on the ballot. Don't interrupt
democracy! Don't deny the wishes of over 7,000 residents! I agree with resident letters recently published in the Daily
Journal by Mike Hagmaier and Bill Williams that the Measure P extension should most certainly go on the November 2020
ballot.

LET THE RESIDENTS VOTE!!

Respectfully,
Gary Isoardi

&nbsp;
506 of&nbsp;574


--- page 507 ---
Patrice Olds

From: Walter Schwartz

Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 5:03 PM

To: goethals@cityofsanmateo.org; Eric Rodriguez; Rick Bonilla; Amourence Lee; Diane
Papan; City Council (San Mateo); Patrice Olds

Subject: Why Measure P should be on the ballot as promised

Dear San Mateo City Councilmembers,
Please look critically at two issues regarding Measure P:

* fs it fair to hold up Measure P until a competing measure gathers signatures?
¢ Are the interests of San Mateans reflected in the General Pian process?

Is it fair to hold up Measure P?
Measure P is a true grass roots initiative. An alternative is being proposed by a collaboration of development interests

and by advocacy organizations based outside of San Mateo. They have already had a year to gather signatures.

If Measure P was a different initiative that you supported (fire safety? union-level wages? better schools?), would you
vote to hold it up so that development and outside advocacy interests could continue to gather signatures more thana
year later?

This should be a simple ethical decision. Don't hald up the will of the people.

Are the interests if San Mateans reflected in the General Plan process?
Many people feel that the meetings to decide San Mateo's future give an outsize role to special interests who promote
greater density.

| analyzed every comment on the first page of Strive San Mateo's "Public Comments"
(http://strivesanmateo.org/documents/publiccomments/).

The results shocked me. Seven out-of-towners and one San Matean pressed for increased density here. Ten
San Mateans and zero outsiders sought moderation, changes in the information-gathering process, or non-
density issues. To conclude for such a group that San Mateans really want increased heights seems specious.

If you doubt the analysis, | strongly encourage you to look first at the summary (below my signature), and then
you can validate it yourself by looking at the source letters in the link.

Respectfully,
Walter Schwartz

Pro Increased Densities

Kevin Burke Technology Consultant Alamo/Belmont
Matthew Taecker Taecker Planning (Urban Planning) Berkeley

Karyl Eldridge Caldwell Banker Burlingame
David D Bohannon Il Bohannon Development Menlo Park
Evelyn Stivers Housing Leadership Council Oakland

Jan Stokley Ex Dir Housing Choices San Jose
Kenneth E Abreu Cites Sierra Club San Mateo

Gita Dev Sierra Club Woodside

1

&nbsp;
507 of&nbsp;574


--- page 508 ---
Pro Moderation

Laurence Kinsella R.E. Developer

Maxine Terner Measure P Organizer

Michael Nash Baywood residents

Adam Nugent Pres. N Central SM Nghbrhd Assn
Susan Shankle Home organization

Unstated or Critical of the Process

Randy Waldeck CSDA Design Group

Lisa M. Maley California Land Design

Laurie Watanuki Ex-Pres., Central Nghbrhd Assn
Nicklas Johnson Software Engineer

Keith Weber Community activist (self-ID’d}

San Mateo
San Mateo
San Mateo
San Mateo
San Mateo

San Mateo
San Mateo
San Mateo
San Mateo
San Mateo

&nbsp;
508 of&nbsp;574


--- page 509 ---
Patrice Olds
bth a ng

From: LOUISE BEKINS

Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 4:03 PM

To: Joe Goethals; Eric Rodriguez; Rick Bonilla; Diane Papan; Amourence Lee
Ce: Patrice Olds; LOUISE BEKINS

Subject: Please Put Citizens Measure on Nov. Ballot

Hello Mayor and Councilpersons,

This is to request that you follow through with the requests of our citizens (as exemplified by the
thousands of petition signatures), and put the Citizens Measure on the Nov. 2020 ballot. Very
important!!

Thank you for all you do,

Louise Bekins

&nbsp;
509 of&nbsp;574


--- page 510 ---
Patrice Olds
PT ra Pe tet eee RUT PS

From: Dennis Murphy

Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 3:46 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo)

Ce: Patrice Olds

Subject: Height Limit Measure Must Be on the Ballot in November - The People Have Spoken!

Dear City Council, on behalf of the San Mateo/Glendale Village Neighborhood Association t implore you to follow-
through with the will of the people and piace the Measure P Extension on the ballot this November. Over 7,000
signatures were collected to place it on the ballot and the City Council and Mayor should honor that, not divert attention
and postpone it. The Mayor needs to follow-though on his word when he said on 8/16/2019 that the initiative would be
placed on the bailot in 2020. Let the voters’ voices be heard in November!

Sincerely,

Dennis Murphy
President, San Mateo/Glendale Village Neighborhood Association

&nbsp;
510 of&nbsp;574


--- page 511 ---
Patrice Olds
tet nT S|

From: Genel Morgan

Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 2:10 PM

To: Patrice Olds

Subject: Fwd: Placing Measure P extension on the November ballot

aoomeenene Forwarded message ---------

From: Genel Morgan

Date: Mon, Apr 27, 2020 at 10:40 AM

Subject: Placing Measure P extension on the November ballot
To: <CityCouncil@cityofsanmaeo.org>

Cc: <polds@cityofsanmaeo.org>

Dear Mayor Goethals and city council members,

| have lived in San Mateo most of my life and have seen the city grow and change. Growth and change are good and if
done thoughtfully, it will benefit all in the community.

| signed the petition for an initiative to extend height and density limits for building in San Mateo many months ago. | am
aware of the lengthy debate by many parties involved, but am now frustrated to hear that the initiative may not be on
the November ballot. THE PEOPLE of San Mateo who signed the petition are expecting the residents of San Mateo to be
able to show their support or opposition to extending the fimits BY THEIR VOTE in November.

There have been months of debate over this and now | understand that the developers want more time to place an
opposing initiative on the ballot. They have had plenty of time to do this over these many months. Using the excuse of
the Coronavirus pandemic to allow them more time for their PAID signature gatherers is outrageous to me.

| believe the height and density limits of Measure P are appropriate and there is nothing stopping developers from
building within those limits. They just want higher buildings and increased density to make more money. They are not
the ones who will have to live with the effects of revised limits.

San Mateo residents deserve to have their city council listen to them and honor a commitment made in 2019 by you,
Mr. Goethals. You said at a city council meeting 8/16/19 "| do very much want to honor the signatures on the initiative.
People should leave here tonight understanding at a minimum that the initiative as it is written will be placed on the
ballot in 2020."

1 understand the need for more housing but overgrowth does the city more harm than good. Voter suppression is a very
touchy subject with me. Please don't stand in the way of San Mateans who want their voice to be heard on this
important issue. We will remember when the council comes up for re-election again.

Sincerely
Genei Morgan
San Mateo

&nbsp;
511 of&nbsp;574


--- page 512 ---
Patrice Olds
Dt

From: John Harris, Jr.
Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 1:42 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo)
Ce: Patrice Olds
- Subject: Measure P on the Ballot in Nov

San Mateo City Council,
| read a recent SM Daily Journal article about how the Mayor proposes keeping Measure P from being put on the ballot

this year. (Daily Journal Link)

lam a lifelong resident of San Mateo and | expect to vote on the ballot measures which the "City Council unanimously
decided to place [...] on the November 2020 bailot, according to a city press release". (Sept Daily Journal Link)

If a citizens-driven initiative has qualified for being decided by vote, the city has an obligation to respect the thousands
of hours invested by the citizens and place that initiative on the ballot. Regardless of Covid-19 or other circumstances,
governmental processes must continue.

This initiative is even more important since Measure P is slated to sunset before the 2021 vote would take place.

Please let me know what is being done to safeguard this issue.

Thankyou in advance.

John — over in Beresford Park

&nbsp;
512 of&nbsp;574


--- page 513 ---
Patrice Olds
DT

From: Nancy Eagan pl

Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 12:38 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo)

Ce: Patrice Olds

Subject: HEIGHT LIMITS BALLOT MEASURE

Respectfully, {am enraged that City Council may vote to block Measure P from the ballot in November 2020 election.

City Government and Council are obligated to honor what the voters want. Bowing to the pressure of developers and
putting the City budget ahead of voters' is very WRONG, There are enough tall buildings in San Mateo.

It is my hope that City Council will do the right thing -- Measure P rightfully belongs on November 2020 ballot.
Thank you for reading this!
Hopeful constituent,

Nancy Eagan
Proud SM Resident

&nbsp;
513 of&nbsp;574


--- page 514 ---
Patrice Olds

From: Jeffrey Wang

Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 12:26 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo); Patrice Olds

Subject: Vote to Put Measure to Extend Prop P on 2020 Baliot

| wish to express our interest in putting the measure to extend Measure P on the November 2020 ballot. The debate on
this subject has already been had. Over 7000 valid signatures were obtained to put this measure on the ballot. Don't
deny the democratic principle to put this measure to the voters. Let them decide. There is no excuse.

Even in the age of Covid-19, balloting can proceed successfully by Vote By Mail. Many of us do this already. There are
also many easy to use platforms on-line to discuss and debate issues.

Then councilman Joe Goethals at a Council meeting on 8/16/2019, referring to placing the extensions of Measure P
on the ballot said:

"I do very much want to honor the signatures on the initiative. People should leave here tonight understanding at a
minimum that the initiative as it is written will be placed on the ballot in 2020." Let this be so.

Elien and Jeff Wang
148 29th Ave.

&nbsp;
514 of&nbsp;574


--- page 515 ---
Patrice Olds
nnn nnn nn nT eel

From: Katherine Van Beckum

Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 10:07 AM
To: City Council (San Mateo)

Ce: Patrice Olds

Subject: Height Limits

| was shocked to hear the Council may vote to not put the height limits measure on the Nov. 2020 baifot as the the
Mayor said he would. This idea is unacceptable and particularly galling to try and slip this vote in during a time when the
voters are focused on health issues and may not be aware of what Mayor Goethals is up to. Please make sure that the
measure is on the Nov. 2020 ballot.

Regards,

Katherine Van Beckum

&nbsp;
515 of&nbsp;574


--- page 516 ---
Patrice Olds

From:

Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 9:35 AM
To: Patrice Olds

Subject: Measure p

It is bizarre and regrettable that there is any talk about denying our vote in November for Measure P.
1 don’t even think that City Council has a legal avenues to take this off the ballot but it’s disturbing that there’s even talk

of it.

7,000 signatures vs. 1 developer shouldn’t be that hard of a decision.

| believe the council was elected to serve the will of the people and not propose extraordinary measures during
unprecedented times to special interest groups.

Tom Lease

Sent from my iPhone

&nbsp;
516 of&nbsp;574


--- page 517 ---
Patrice Olds
a a rrr nn ed

From: Connie Schram

Sent; Monday, April 27, 2020 8:32 AM
To: City Council (San Mateo)

Ce: polds@Cityofsamateo.org
Subject: measure P on Nov. Ballot

Dear Council Members, We urge you to place Height Limits Measure on November Ballot as promised. We were
supporters of the original Measure H and want to retain our rights as a long time San Mateo Citizen, to vote on this issue
in November. Thank You.

Richard E. Schram and Constance L. Schramn,

Sent from my iPad

&nbsp;
517 of&nbsp;574


--- page 518 ---
Patrice Olds
a a OEE

From: Mike Germano

Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 8:23 AM
To: City Council (San Mateo)

Cc: Clerk

Subject: Respecting the Right to Vote

Dear San Mateo City Council members,

It's important that all citizens are afforded the right to vote. Over two years ago far more than the
minimum number of signatures needed were collected throughout San Mateo for a measure to
extend the expiring building height limitations.

Unfortunately the measure was not placed on the ballot then. A recent article In the local newspaper
read that the mayor is considering not placing it on the ballot this year.

Out of respect for the citizens of this city, the measure needs to be on the ballot this year. To omit or
delay it further is disservice to the people of San Mateo and an insult to the fundamentals of
democracy.

Please honor the intent and spirit of the thousands of San Mateo voters who signed the petition to be
able to vote on this measure and assure it's on this this year's ballot.

Thank you,

Mike Germano

&nbsp;
518 of&nbsp;574


--- page 519 ---
Patrice Olds
te

From:

Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 8:14 AM

To: Patrice Olds

Subject: Fw: Height Measures

Patrice-

| believe this letter was intended for the City Council not the Paul Council.
Best Regards-

Paul

From: William William

Sent: Saturday, April 25, 2020 5:27 PM
To: Paul Council

Ce: polls@cityofsanmateo.org
Subject: FW: Height Measures

Sent from Outlook

From: William Williams

Sent: Tuesday, April 21, 2020 2:46 PM
To: letters@smdailyjournat.com
Subject: Height Measures

Editor: Thank you for the report in the Journal on 4/20 regarding height and density measures affecting the City of San
Mateo.

The extend Measure P petition signatures were collected by unpaid San Mateo residents concerned about livability.
Ballot placement was delayed two years to match the expiration of the original measure.

The competing measure sponsors, a union leader, the County Democratic Party Chair, and a developer have had two
years to qualify their proposal.

The mayor wants to deny San Mateo residents their right to vote. After a month of social distancing residents may
prefer less population density.

Are San Mateo city residents not allowed to disagree with a union leader, the Democratic Party, and a developer? Let us
vote. Stop the propaganda.

X Bill Williams, San Mateo

Sent from Outlook

&nbsp;
519 of&nbsp;574


--- page 520 ---
Patrice Olds

From: Nancy McKane
Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 2:46 AM

To: Patrice Olds

Subject: Fwd: Measure P Extension

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

City Clerk of San Mateo:

The process to insure that the Measure P Extension appear on the November ballot was no impulse
decision. The legal protocol was followed very conscientiously.

Concerned San Mateo citizens including myself donated time , heavy footwork and money over a
considerable period of time to acquire the required number of signatures insuring that Measure P would
appear on the November 2020 ballot .

Now | like others who followed the process am both disturbed and outraged that the City Council
is attempting to negate or undo this legal process using the pandemic situation as a reason for delay.
We are being ignored which is unacceptable.

The 7000 necessary signatures were legally obtained in good faith. Why has the mayor reversed his
previous decision to insure the measure would appear on the November ballot.??

| find this proposed action inexcusable and a betrayal of honest citizens who expect this measure placed

on the November bailot.

Clearly , this attempt at postponement is voter suppression denying voters the opportunity to decide on
height limits in San Mateo.
What has prompted this attempt??

The voters and not City Council must decide on the future.

Using the virus to postpone seems disingenuous to me.

On a bigger scale will other elections in our country be cancelled because of the virus ?? Again the
Council’s actions to postpone suggest a a lack of transparency. Again , this is unacceptable.

Looking ahead to the future { believe once the full damage of the pandemic is revealed the economic,
cultural and societal landscape will have changed dramatically throughout the country, especially the
Bay Area.

&nbsp;
520 of&nbsp;574


--- page 521 ---
The focus upon more housing in San Mateo may very well become a moot point with numerous job
losses and economic depression for many. Secondly , more pandemics may be in our future and dense
tall housing structures with many residents have been shown to contribute to the spread of disease.

All of this points to the need for a less dense area with appropriate height limits as set forth in Measure
P. The voters must decide.

Thank you for your consideration.

= - McKane

Sent from my iPhone

Sent from my iPhone

&nbsp;
521 of&nbsp;574


--- page 522 ---
Patrice Olds

From: Linda Schaffer

Sent: Sunday, April 26, 2020 11:28 PM
To: Patrice Olds

Subject: Measure “P" Extension

Mr. & Mrs. Kenneth Schaffer would like to have the right to vote on the Measure P extension on the November ballot.

We were upset when we read the newspaper article: We were shocked to hear that the Mayor is thinking that it might not
be a good time

to put this on the November ballot. There are a lot of people who worked hard to get this on the ballot.

Thank-you,
Linda & Ken Schaffer

&nbsp;
522 of&nbsp;574


--- page 523 ---
Patrice Olds
Gn

From: Jean Dail

Sent: Sunday, April 26, 2020 11:08 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo); Amourence Lee; Joe Goethals; Rick Bonilla; Eric Rodriguez;
Diane Papan

Ce: Patrice Olds

Subject: Measure P extension for November 2020 Ballot

Dear City Council -

| respectively request that you support the citizens of the City of San Mateo and complete your legal responsibility by
placing the measure fo extend Measure P on the November 2020 ballot.

e Is it not enough that this measure has been signed by more than 7,000 City of San Mateo voters?

¢ Is it not enough that City Council has delayed this vote already from November 2018?

e Is it not enough that Joe Goethals said "| do very much want to honor the signatures on the initiative. People
should leave here tonight understanding at a minimum that the initiative as it is written will be placed on the ballot
in 2020."?

Maybe being on our City Council and serving a citizenship that is involved, concerned and actively working with local
government is more challenging than welcoming. But! would hope that having a citizenship with those qualities actually
helps you in serving us. How much worse would it be to be on a City Council that no one shows up for the meetings... no
one volunteers... no one gets involved? ,

Those of us involved in the initiative to extend Measure P have put in the hard work it takes to collect signatures and bring
this issue to the ballot box to allow ALL voters in the City of San Mateo to vote. Please find it in your hearts and minds to
allow this democratic process to move forward supported by you and not thwarted.

It just cannot be that as our honorable City Council members that you choose to find more and more ways to tear my
heart out over this issue. | am not of a political or legal background... } am not even much of an activist. But with the little
education | have in our democracy, never in my lifetime would | have expected to live in a city whose elected officials
would even consider interfering with a legally completed initiative to be placed on our ballot. Please do not allow such a
travesty follow your reputations, ...as Elijah Cummings said "We're better than that...”

i hope you are all well, staying safe and continue your great service to the City of San Mateo.
Sincerely, Jean Dail

&nbsp;
523 of&nbsp;574


--- page 524 ---
Patrice Olds
mee atten |

From: Joyce B

Sent: Sunday, April 26, 2020 10:02 PM

To: Patrice Olds

Cec: goethals@cityofsanmateo.org; Eric Rodriguez; Rick Bonilla; Amourence Lee; Diane
Papan

Subject: Citizens Height Limit

Dear Mayor and City Council Members, Back in August (8/16/2019) at the Council meeting, Mayor Gothals stated that
he wanted to honor the signatures on the initiative as it is written to extend Measure P which is due to expire at the end
of this year and that it would be placed on the ballot in 2020. Many citizens worked to fulfill the legal requirements in
order to get the Measure P extension on the November 2020 ballot.

Now we are hearing this measure might not be placed be placed on the November 2020 ballot as promised. We do not
expect “loopholes” to be found to thwart the wishes of the citizens of our city. PLEASE HONOR THE ALL THAT WAS
DONE BY THE CITIZENS AND GET THE MEASURE P EXTENSION INITIATIVE PLACED ON THE NOVEMBER 2020 BALLOT. It is
the duty of the Council to place this measure on the November 2020 ballot. We are concerned that the will of the
people may be circumvented and do not want this to happen.

Please let us personally know that this measure will be placed on the ballot. Or if there is a delay in doing so, notify us of
this disappointing happening and what would be needed to insure placement of this measure on the ballot.

Thank you, Joyce and Leo Burns P|

Attn: City Clerk, Please place our letter on the record for the City Council Meeting. Thank you

&nbsp;
524 of&nbsp;574


--- page 525 ---
Patrice Olds
nee Le eee I eee,

From: Chuck Kabala

Sent: Sunday, April 26, 2020 7:47 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo)
Subject: Heights measure on ballot

Dear Council Members, As citizens of San Mateo we would appreciate the apportunity to voice our opinion regarding
height limits in the November election. Please ensure that San Mateans retain the privilege of voting about what
happens in our city. Thank you, Beth & Chuck Kabala

Sent from my iPhone

&nbsp;
525 of&nbsp;574


--- page 526 ---
Patrice Olds
‘ae eee eaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaacaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa ama aaa sasasasuasssaati,

From: Gretchen Warner i

Sent: Sunday, April 26, 2020 7:43 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo)

Ce: Patrice Olds

Subject: SMRG Heights and Density Limits Initiative

To the San Mateo City Council:

Reportedly, Mayor Goethals has indicated the possibility of NOT honoring a commitment previously made by the City
Council to place the San Mateo citizens’ Initiative on the ballot in November, 2020. The Council had previously
postponed a legal initiative signed by more than 7000 citizens in 2018.

Deferring the long awaited vote would be an unconscionable and illega! miscarriage of justice. | am shocked that any
council member would consider this. | never thought that voter disenfranchisement would be considered in our fine city
by our own elected city council members.

San Mateans for Responsive Government have trusted the city council in good faith. Are we now to be betrayed?

Gretchen a = time homeowner

Sent from my iPad

&nbsp;
526 of&nbsp;574


--- page 527 ---
Patrice Olds
CTP eT PA rN tet AAA

From: Arnie Rodman

Sent: Sunday, April 26, 2020 5:28 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo); Clerk

Ce: Arnold (Arnie) Rodman

Subject: Public Comments for City Council meeting - April 27,2020

Council Members

Joe Goethals, Mayor

Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor
Rick Bonilla

Amourence Lee

Diane Papan

We feel strongly that the height and density limits extension of measure P should be on the
November 2020 ballot. Especially since over 7,000 residents signed a petition to extend the these
limits as defined in Measure P.

We believe that a lower density environment is definitely safer and healthier for the inhabitants
of our City. One only needs to look at the death rate for the COVID-19 Pandemic, for many higher
density cities. Today, more than ever, we are crucially aware of the necessity for a healthy and
safe living environment. Unfortunately developers do not necessarily care about health and
safety issues; they are, we believe, primarily interested in their bottom line return on investment.

Signed:
Arnold Rodman
Deborah Leizgold

&nbsp;
527 of&nbsp;574


--- page 528 ---
Patrice Olds

From:
Sent:
To:

Cc:
Subject:

The City Council—

Douglass Warner

Sunday, April 26, 2020 3:44 PM
City Council (San Mateo)
Patrice Olds

SMRG Height Limit initiative

There is a report that Mayor Joe Goethals has said that the City Council would NOT place the SNRG Height Limit Initiative
on the November 2020 ballot as promised. All the signers of the Initiative—over 7000—expect that their wishes will be
honored. The Council has a legal obligation to place the measure on the 2020 ballot. This is the expectation in a free
society! To not do so is a blatant example of voter suppression! | strongly urge you to do your duty and place the SMRG
Height Limit Initiative on the November 2020 ballot for voter up-or-down approval. | look forward to your actions in

this matter.

Douglass Warner, home owner

&nbsp;
528 of&nbsp;574


--- page 529 ---
Patrice Olds
nee I i eisai,

From: Lynda |. Brothers SIs

Sent: Sunday, April 26, 2020 2:59 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo)

Ce: Patrice Olds

Subject: height limit

You can’t arbitrarily use a health pandemic to upset the legislative process... . It seems illegal to me and in any case, it’s
very BAD government. Please respect the efforts of the dedicated people who’ve been involved in this issue and hear
them out and act on Monday night.

I'm really tired of my elected officials, in my adopted home of San Mateo, | grew up in Palo Alto, pandering to
commercial and industrial needs. That's just not why we elect you!! this is basically a residential community and you
need to be mindful of that and keep it that way. You must support the height limitation... it's a very modest request
considering ai! the circumstances.

Regards, Lynca

Lynda L. Brothers

LBrothers@LBrothersLaw.com

&nbsp;
529 of&nbsp;574


--- page 530 ---
Patrice Olds
eae eta tibia nnT

From: Deborah Kohn

Sent: Sunday, April 26, 2020 2:55 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo)

Ce: Patrice Olds

Subject: Retaining San Mateo Citizens’ Right to Vote

i sincerely believe that a Town Hall discussion, as proposed by the current Mayor of San Mateo, or any further
discussion regarding San Mateo's height and density limits are not only unnecessary but are NOT a City Council function.

The citizens of San Mateo did all that was legally required to get the Measure P extension on the ballot. In addition, the
debate on this subject already has been had.

Do not interrupt democracy! Do not deny the wishes of over 7,000 San Mateo residents.

&nbsp;
530 of&nbsp;574


--- page 531 ---
Patrice Olds

From: Deborah Kohn [a

Sent: Sunday, April 26, 2020 2:44 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo)

Cc: Patrice Olds

Subject: Retaining San Mateo Citizens Their Right to Vote

!am astonished by Mayor Joe Goethals’ recent comments that this is not the time for the voters to
decide about the important issues of height and density.

in early 2018, over 7000 San Mateo voters submitted signatures which the County verified and the
City certified. The next step should have been the ballot. Yet at every turn, the Council, often with
the Mayor the most vocal, found a reason to put this measure off & delay it until the November
2020 ballot.

Deborah Kohn

&nbsp;
531 of&nbsp;574


--- page 532 ---
Patrice Olds

From:

Sent: Sunday, April 26, 2020 2:20 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo)

Subject: Please put height limit on ballot--it's been long enough

Dear Council members..... The height limit issue ballot initiative was signed by the required number of voters over 2 years
ago.

We understand the concern for the general plan and possible state issues, but this has dragged on long enough. Please
put it on the November ballot for voters to decide. {tis your responsibility to do it.

Thanks.

T and C Gillett

&nbsp;
532 of&nbsp;574


--- page 533 ---
Patrice Olds
Semana ditt i neg

From: lvana Sebastian

Sent: Sunday, April 26, 2020 1:58 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo)

Cc: Patrice Olds

Subject: Mayor, not cool what you're doing about height measures

Expressing my opinion here that | can’t believe how Mayor Goethal is trying to not put the height and density measure
issue on the ballot in November after San Mateo voters spent countless hours and effort, submitted county and city
certified signatures that exceeded 7000 signatures in total.

What disappointment it was when we were refused to have the initiative put on the 2018 ballot and told to delay until
2020. Shame on the you ail that gave us false hopes in 2018 ~ when the residents who care about this city worked so
hard to obtain more signatures than what was required, then told us 2020 and now trying to tell us 2022. How are we
to have faith in our city council and mayor when they keep messing around with us like this? The community is happy
to be engaged in the matters that affect us and now is a time to continue with the efforts that we’ve worked so hard
for.

} am an active individual in my community, lived here for over 30 years, home owner, promotes and supports local
business owners. | am requesting this Measure P / height and density issue continue with the planned November 2020
ballot; requesting for Mayor Goethal and city council to cease condoning voters suppression.

Looking forward to you passing this along to respective individuals,

Ivana Sebastian

&nbsp;
533 of&nbsp;574


--- page 534 ---
Patrice Olds
nnn

From: Stephen Weller [ian

Sent: Sunday, April 26, 2020 1:53 PM
To: Joe Goethals; Eric Rodriguez; Amourence Lee; Diane Papan; Patrice Olds
Subject: Fwd: Building Height Limits

waceceuee Forwarded message ---------
From: Stephen ve il
Date: Sun, Apr 26, 2020 at 1:

Subject: Building Height Limits
To: <rbonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>

Mr. Bonilla

{am disturbed by the published suggestion, and decidedly opposed, to removing Proposition P from the November 2020
ballot, as proposed by a member of the San Mateo City Council.

Measure P met all standards for inclusion on the upcoming election ballot, and subverting the will of the electorate and
the process by which we make decisions in San Mateo should not be allowed.

The suggestion by special interests who wish to increase population density in San Mateo should be tested by the will of
the residents; this issue has been discussed for years, and now must reach the ballot in November.

Invoking the Covid 19 pandemic as an excuse to delay this vote is a transparent exercise; City Council does not require
more time and deliberation for this Ballot Measure, deliberation which should no longer be an issue for the Council.

Please do not waste City Council time on debating the delay of voting on proposition P; stay focused on the issues of
greater import, and do not allow the current process of determining the life style of San Mateo to be subverted.

Stephen A. Weller, MD

&nbsp;
534 of&nbsp;574


--- page 535 ---
Patrice Olds

From: weller323

Sent: Sunday, April 26, 2020 1:43 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo); Patrice Olds; Joe Goethals; Eric Rodriguez; Rick Bonilla;
Amourence Lee; Diane Papan

Ce: San Mateans for Responsive Government

Subject: San Mateo Height Measures

Dear City of San Mateo Council members,
| was deeply disappointed and dismayed to read in the Daily Journal Mayor Goethals is attempting to
again postpone the vote to renew Measure P.

All that is legally required to put the Measure P extension on the ballot has been done. The
competing Measure has not met the required number of signatures despite the effort using paid
agressive signature gatherers for weeks before the Shelter in Place orders were enacted. To keep
the extension vote off the ballot is willfully and dangerously ignoring the democratic process by which
San Mateans expect our city government to be governed.

And, the "smoke and mirrors" argument offered by Mayor Goethals, that the City Council should not
deai with important issues other than COVID-19 is insulting to the capabilities of other council
members and paid staff.

| am wondering to whom Mr. Goethals is beholding if not to the voters of our city.

Debate on this issue has been ongoing for many months/years. November 2020 is the time we
citizens expect to be able to vote on the Measure P extension.

Sincerely,

&nbsp;
535 of&nbsp;574


--- page 536 ---
Patrice Olds

From: Margaret Radyk Ps

Sent: Sunday, April 26, 2020 12:59 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo); Patrice Olds
Subject: Put Measure P on the ballot

Dear City Council,

As a lifelong resident of San Mateo, | respectfully request that the citizens be recognized by placing
the Height Limit measure on the 2020 ballot for all to vote on. Let all voices be heard via the vote, the
meek and the bold, and let fairness prevail.

Sincerely,
Margaret Radyk

&nbsp;
536 of&nbsp;574


--- page 537 ---
Patrice Olds

From: Mary Bates

Sent: Sunday, April 26, 2020 12:26 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo)

Ce: Patrice Olds

Subject: Measure P Extension

Members of the City Council:

| strongly support the Measure P extension and cannot believe that some members of the council are
considering once again delaying putting the measure on the November ballot. Two years is long enough to
review the measure and using the corona virus as an excuse for further delay is not valid. San Mateo citizens
were told the measure would go on the November 2020 ballot and | see no justification for not honoring that
promise.

Sincerely,

Mary M. Bates

&nbsp;
537 of&nbsp;574


--- page 538 ---
Patrice Olds
se a gt nn

From: Kathy Hutt

Sent: Sunday, April 26, 2020 10:27 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo); Patrice Olds
Subject: Measure P Extension - ballot

Citizens have done all that was legally required to get the Measure P extension on the ballot.
The council has a lega! duty to place the measure on the ballot.

Don't interrupt democracy! Don't deny the wishes of over 7,000 residents!

&nbsp;
538 of&nbsp;574


--- page 539 ---
Patrice Olds

From: JANE JAMES i

Sent: Sunday, April 26, 2020 8:12 AM
To; Citycounci@cityofsanmateo,org
Ce: Patrice Olds

Subject: Height Measures

Dear City Council,

It is wrong to not put the Measure P extension on the ballot this November. { signed a petition, and the Council delayed
it for 2 years, and now is trying to do the same thing again.

It is absurd, and condescending, for politicians to claim the voters cannot focus on more than one important issue at a
time.

Debate on Measure P extension already occurred. It's time for politicians to get out of the way of the voters and let the
voters decide,

How do we know that local politicians even know what is really the most important issue? In Jan of this year no one
knew the virus issue would become a priority item. Who knows it will still be

a high priority by the end of the year?

| agree with the letters published in the Daily Journal -- P Extension should go on the ballot!

1 own property in the city of San Mateo and | vote regularly.

Jane James

&nbsp;
539 of&nbsp;574


--- page 540 ---
Patrice Olds
bmn

From: sasaro Asaro

Sent: Saturday, April 25, 2020 10:15 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo)
Subject: Measure P

Mayor Goethals,

At the 8-16-20 meeting you said "| do very much want to honor the signatures on the initiative" (
Measure P ).

Now you are saying that the measure should be delayed because of the ongoing health crisis.

We have seen this kind of politics since the government told the Indians ( Don't worry we'll take care
of you ).

It sounds like the white man still speaks with fork tongue.

I'm sure the general public can deal with the virus and still be able to vote.

if you would see to it that measure P is on the November ballot |! would appreciate it.

if not we could try again in 2020, with our new mayor.

Respectfully Sam Asaro, some one who was heipful in getting you elected.

&nbsp;
540 of&nbsp;574


--- page 541 ---
Patrice Olds

From: Me

Sent: Saturday, April 25, 2020 9:53 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo)

Ce: Patrice Olds

Subject: Height Limits- my voter rights

In early 2018, | joined more than 7000 San Mateo voters and submitted my signature regarding height limits
which the County verified and the City certified. The next step should have been the ballot. But it appears that
the Council keeps coming up with reasons to put this measure off.

I'm tired of it. The Council has a legal duty to place this measure on the Nov 2020 ballot. Very disappointed in
the runaround from the Mayor. I'm against the developers’ interests and will vote that way.

Sincerely,

Jill McHale

&nbsp;
541 of&nbsp;574


--- page 542 ---
Patrice Olds
ehh ne gta nana tng pn nn

From: landucci

Sent: Saturday, April 25, 2020 9:29 PM

To: goethals @cityofsanmateo.org; Eric Rodriguez; Rick Bonilla; Amourence Lee; Diane
Papan; City Council (San Mateo); Patrice Olds

Subject: Please place citizen height limits measure on the Nov 2020 ballot

4/25/2020

Dear City Councilmembers,

We want to retain our right to vote on Height Limits Measure this

November. Mayor Goethals promised at a Council meeting, “| do very much want to honor
the signatures on the initiative. People should leave here tonight understanding at a minimum
that the initiative as it is written will be placed on the ballot in 2020." San Mateo citizens and
voters did all that was legally required to get the Measure P extension on the ballot. The
Council has a legal duty to place this measure on the November 2020 ballot.”

If we get more high-rise buildings with a densifying plan it will lead to noisier areas. Research
has proven and in Science magazine a study from the Barcelona institute for Global Health
found that residential-surrounding greenspace is related with less severe strokes. Living in
high noise areas can lead to many more severe strokes and other cardiovascular episodes.”
Since most the City of San Mateo, San Mateo County and Bay Area transit systems don't
cover their cities nearly as completely as those in Europe, China, Japan and some eastern
and midwestern U.S. cities, new residents even in high rises cannot avoid using cars, whether
their own or via ride-sharing companies like Uber and Lyft. This will cause even more
congestion, noise, illness and pollution.

Many epidemiologists have said dense populations act like petri dishes allowing micro-
organisms to survive and thrive. Skyscraper office and residential buildings have had an
increase in COVID-19 cases. Do we want this for San Mateo’s future? There are going to
be future pandemics.

Please do your obligation: The Council has a legal duty to place citizen height limits

measure on the Nov 2020 ballot.

Dr. Al Landucci, voter and resident of San Mateo since 1948, volunteer faculty University
of California, San Francisco Medical Center, post-doctorate program for first-, second- and
third-year residents

Steven Liu, MD, DDS, Clinical Instructor, University of Pacific

&nbsp;
542 of&nbsp;574


--- page 543 ---
Patrice Olds

From: Koren Ss as

Sent: Saturday, April 25, 2020 9:19 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo)

Ce: Patrice Olds

Subject: Mon, April 27, 2020 City Council Meeting - Height Limits

Dear City Councilmembers:

| respectfully cail on you as the city council to allow the vote for Measure P to go forward in November 2020 as
scheduled and as promised. It has been questionably pushed off already, and it would be a grave injustice to our
democratic system to push it off again.

Please honor the following statement previously made when the original vote was deferred:

"| do very much want to honor the signatures on the initiative. People should leave here tonight
understanding at a minimum that the initiative as it is written will be placed on the ballot in 2020." (spoken
by Joe Goethals)

The citizens have done ALL that was legally required to get the Measure P extension on the ballot. Therefore, it is
incumbent that democracy prevail. It is WRONG to deny the wishes of over 7,000 San Mateo residents!

The Measure P extension should most certainly go on the November 2020 ballot. It is more than ready to go
forward, and there is NO reason it should be delayed.

Respectfully,

Karen Sid
San Mateo resident

&nbsp;
543 of&nbsp;574


--- page 544 ---
Patrice Olds

From:
Sent:
To:

Ce:
Subject:

Dear Council Member,

Deva Harris

Saturday, April 25, 2020 8:52 PM

Joe Goethals; Eric Rodriguez; Rick Bonilla; Diane Papan; Amourence Lee
Patrice Olds

Pls Put Measure P on Ballot

1 would hope that you, as a city council member, would have the residents of San Mateo in mind when you are
considering tong term growth within our city. What better way to find what residents would want than to afford them
the opportunity to have their voice heard by voting. Measure P is democracy in action, please give your constituents,
who make San Mateo their home, the right to vote! I'd like my voice heard and | urge you to place Measure P on the

November 2020 ballot.

Respectfully,

Devra Harris

42 year resident of San Matea
Former SMGVNA Board Member

Citizen’s Advisory Committee Member (2001 - 2005)

&nbsp;
544 of&nbsp;574


--- page 545 ---
Patrice Olds
naa TE A ai te ets,

From: Aimee WCrollerskate Pe

Sent: Saturday, April 25, 2020 7:54 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo)

Ce: Patrice Olds

Subject: Measure P extension MUST appear on the 2020 ballot

Dear San Mateo City Council Members,

If there is anything that the recent COVID-19 situation has taught us, it's that PEOPLE make this world go ‘round, not
corporations or developers.

in a climate where Mr. Goethals expressed his wish to remain focused on the protecting residents in a health crisis, he
cannot ALSO dismiss the will of those same residents in the very next breath. .

The residents of this community have delivered the legal requirements to put the measure up for a proper vote. Asa
matter of fact, on 8/6/19, Mr. Goethals is councilman on record stating the following:

“People shauld leave here tonight understanding at a minimum that the initiative as it is written will be placed on the
ballot in 2020."

For the city to deliver less than this is utterly dishonest and hands an unfair advantage straight to the developers.

Once again, if there is anything that the recent COVID-19 situation has taught us, it's that PEOPLE make this world go
‘round, not corporations or developers.

Measure P extension MUST appear on the 2020 baliot.

Thank you for your consideration,
Aimee Bruckner

&nbsp;
545 of&nbsp;574


--- page 546 ---
Patrice Olds

From:
Sent:
To:

Ce:
Subject:

John Radyk

Saturday, April 25, 2020 7:43 PM
City Council (San Mateo)

Patrice Olds

Height Limits Measure

tam sending this email to express my wish that the height limits measure be included on the November 2020 baiiot.
Enough signatures were collected on a petition to get the height limits measure on the ballot, and it was agreed that the
measure would be on the November 2020 ballot. The citizens of San Mateo have a right to decide for themselves how
much development and density is appropriate for their city, especially now, when areas with higher population densities
have been hit the hardest by Covid-19. ‘

Thank you,
John Radyk

Sent from my iPhone

&nbsp;
546 of&nbsp;574


--- page 547 ---
Patrice Olds

From: Dorothy Radyk

Sent: Saturday, April 25, 2020 7:23 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo)

Ce: Patrice Olds

Subject: Height Limits Measure

Concerned citizens of San Mateo gathered enough signatures to put the height limits measure on the ballot. You have
previously agreed that the height limits measure would be on the November 2020 ballot. Make good on your promise.
Now more than ever, the citizens of San Mateo deserve a say on how much development and density they are willing to
live with.

Sincerely,

Dorothy Radyk

Sent from my iPhone

&nbsp;
547 of&nbsp;574


--- page 548 ---
Patrice Olds
he EE

From:

Sent: Saturday, April 25, 2020 6:23 PM
To: ; City Council (San Mateo)
Subject: Measure P

Council Members,

San Mateo citizens have done all that was legally required to get the Measure P
extension on the ballot. Do not deny the rights of the residents.

Thank you,

Elaine Thompson, San Mateo resident

&nbsp;
548 of&nbsp;574


--- page 549 ---
Patrice Olds
a Te eee aT ieaaaiaaaniaiimmmmmian

From:

Sent: Saturday, April 25, 2020 6:10 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo)

Ce: Patrice Olds

Subject: The Height Limit Extension

Ladies and Gentlemen

| am sending this email to you to let you know of my support to put The Height Limit Extension on the November Ballot,
2020. The citizens have done ALL that was legally required to get the Measure P extension on the ballot. Please don’t
deny the wishes of over 7,000 residents.

| have been a resident of the City of San Mateo since 1952, have voted in every election, and take my vote very
seriously. Please allow the voters to express their opinion on this matter at the upcoming election.

Sincerely,

Elizabeth McGee Cookson

&nbsp;
549 of&nbsp;574


--- page 550 ---
Patrice Olds
el

From: | watanuki

Sent: Saturday, April 25, 2020 5:44 PM

To: Joe Goethals; Eric Rodriguez; Diane Papan; Amourence Lee; Rick Bonilla
Ce: Patrice Olds

Subject: Measure P Extension

Dear Honorable Mayor Goethals and Members of the City Council,

The citizens have done ALL that was legally required to get the Measure P extension on the ballot. Don't deny
the wishes of over 7,000 residents!

Please honor the efforts of the citizens of San Mateo and place this Measure P Extension on the ballot for
November 2020.

It is not right to deny the citizens twice.

Sincerely,

Laurie Watanuki

&nbsp;
550 of&nbsp;574


--- page 551 ---
Patrice Olds
ee ees canaieanunnaanaemaeneamnntuiieiieimaammmmmmmiaia

From: William Williams

Sent: Saturday, April 25, 2020 5:39 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo)
Subject: FW: Height Measures

Sent from Outlook

From: William Williams

Sent: Tuesday, April 21, 2020 2:46 PM
To: letters@smdailyjournal.com
Sudject: Height Measures

Editor: Thank you for the report in the Journal on 4/20 regarding height and density measures affecting the City of San
Mateo.

The extend Measure P petition signatures were collected by unpaid San Mateo residents concerned about livability.
Ballot placement was delayed two years to match the expiration of the original measure.

The competing measure sponsors, a union leader, the County Democratic Party Chair, and a developer have had two
years to qualify their proposal.

The mayor wants to deny San Mateo residents their right to vote. After a month of social distancing residents may
prefer less population density,

Are San Mateo city residents not allowed to disagree with a union leader, the Democratic Party, and a developer? Let us
vote. Stop the propaganda.

X Bill Williams, San Mateo

Sent from Outlook

&nbsp;
551 of&nbsp;574


--- page 552 ---
Patrice Olds
Sta a end

From: Steph Thompson

Sent: Saturday, April 25, 2020 5:37 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo)

Ce: Patrice Olds

Subject: Height limits

We are writing in favor of placing the citizen sponsored height limits initiative on the ballot this fall, which was the
agreement made with us a couple years back. The argument about not wanting to split focus is disingenuous. If we can
support a presidential election we can certainly find time for such an important local issue as well.

Sincerely,
Phil and Steph Thompson

Sent from my iPad

Begin forwarded message:

From: Lisa Taner

Date: April 25, 2020 at 3:09:44 PM PDT

To: undisclosed-recipients:;

Subject: THIS WEEKEND - Emails to Save Your Vote!

Hello BHNA Members!
HEIGHT LIMITS NEWS

There is a LOT going on with the citizen height limits measure. On April 20th, the Daily Journal
noted that Mayor Joe Goethals was recently making noise about NOT placing the measure on
the November 2020 ballot as promised. (See link below.)

Concerned residents should send the Council an email this weekend if they want to retain
their right to vote on this matter this November! Email
to: CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org and copy the City Clerk to have it on the record

at polds@cityofsanmateo.org.

It's noteworthy that Mayor Goethals promised at a Council meeting on 8/16/201, "| do very
much want to honor the signatures on the initiative. People should leave here tonight
understanding at a minimum that the initiative as it is written will be placed on the ballot in
2020." It's also noteworthy that a Town Hail discussion and more ‘community activity’ called
for by Goethals in the article regarding this measure is not a function of the City

Council. Finally, the citizens did all that was legally required to get the Measure P extension on
the ballot. The current measure expires at the end of this year.

&nbsp;
552 of&nbsp;574


--- page 553 ---
Here is the Daily Journal story: https://www.smdailyiournal,com/news/local/mayor-pause-san-

mateo-height-measures/article b4e2c0c8-82ac-1iea-83f6-

6ff888671988. htm! ?fbclid=lwARIcg4mrUY8bmOFL36Ezlyaye qm9H1xfsQ2ZG2WXxslj 2sF6Od
MUOnAOA.

The DJ did not print in full the response by the citizen's group, which reads:

San Mateans for Responsive Government is astonished by Joe Goethals' comments that this is
not the time for the voters to decide about the important issues of height and density. As SMRG
spokesman Michael Weinhauer said, "The Council has a legal duty to place this measure on the
Nov 2020 ballot." At what point are we to witness the city condoning voter suppression?

In early 2018, over 7000 San Mateo voters submitted signatures which the County verified and
the City certified. The next step should have been the ballot. Yet at every turn, the Council, often
with Joe the most vocal, found a reason to put this measure off & delay it until the November
2020 ballot. Now Joe has another reason this should not happen?

The grapevine says that the developer proponents of the new initiative want the CC to place
their measure on the ballot, despite not doing what SMRG accomplished with untold hours of
volunteer effort. This would be unjust, since the CC refused to put the citizens’ initiative on the
2018 ballot and delayed it until 2020. If their measure is to be voted on this November, let the
developers do what's legally required. Otherwise, we await their attempt for the November
2022 election.

To stay up to date on the citizen's measure, check out www.smartergrowthsm.com.

Your BHNA Board

&nbsp;
553 of&nbsp;574


--- page 554 ---
Patrice Olds
ee |

From: Barb Niss

Sent: Saturday, April 25, 2020 4:19 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo)

Ce: Patrice Olds

Subject: Let the citizens vote on extension of Measure P
Dear City Council,

After a long week at work, I'm catching up on local news and am very concerned about Mayor Goethals
comments in the SMDJ re: his desire to delay the vote of the Measure P extension, and equally
concerned, although not surprised, to read that Rick Bonilla aligns with this thought.

Both of you successfully delayed the vote from 2018 to 2020, but you have no right to continue to delay
this vote, or even voice such an opinion. As Mr. Goethals implied in his 2018 statements, City Council
should honor the signatures of 7,000 voting residents and stand by this Measure being on the 2020
ballot.

The fact that there is a new “alternative measure" put on by people who are known supporters of yours
and are in favor of over development throughout our city were unable to obtain signatures should not
negate what many of us worked so hard to achieve 2 years ago. Also, City Council was not in favor of
putting SMRG's initiative on the ballot without the hard work of the citizenry gathering signatures, so
this new initiative should be treated similarly. I expect you to be fair and impartial representatives of
ALL of the citizens and not just those that are like-minded to you.

Mayor Goethals poorly veiled attempt to show concern for the residents by proposing to delay the
measure approved for the 2020 ballot in 2018 is nothing less than an atrocity. I am offended at your
implication that the voting public is unable to deal with the many issues during this health crisis and
properly vote 6 months from now. I look forward to voting on the citizens extension of Measure P along
with voting for new city council members, a new state senator and a new president in November. Our
citizens are capable and resilient and we certainly don't need representatives insinuating otherwise.

It's time to stop arguing or suggesting the citizens Measure should not be voted on this year. The time
for discussion has passed. Just please do your job and make sure the citizens measure that properly
qualified on its own is placed on the November ballot.

Sincerely,

Barbara Niss
Sunnybrae

&nbsp;
554 of&nbsp;574


--- page 555 ---
Patrice Olds
a Sea aA A a 0 At te

From: Stephen Saks

Sent: Saturday, April 25, 2020 3:43 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo)
Subject: Height Limit Issue

i have lived in SM since 1983. Height limit is an important issue that must be on the bailot. If it isn’t, the matter should
face litigation.

Steve Saks
Stephen Saks Photograph

&nbsp;
555 of&nbsp;574


--- page 556 ---
Patrice Olds
ee ent te ia el

From: Wade White

Sent: Saturday, April 25, 2020 1:23 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo)

Cc: Patrice Oids

Subject: Measure P on Ballot

City Council:

As it has come to my attention that the mayor, Joe Goethals is proposing to delay two competing measures on building
heights and density that are supposed to be on the November Ballot because of COVID-19.

As Mr. Goethals has stated in the past that he wants to honor the signatures on the initiative. “People should leave here
tonight understanding at a minimum that the initiative as it is written will be placed on the ballot in 2020!”

| personally spent hours and hours helping to obtain the 7,000 signatures required to get this measure on the ballot. As
a voting citizen of San Mateo, | expect this measure to be on the ballot. There has been plenty of debate on this subject
and the tines have been drawn. It is time to vote!! Discussion and community activity for the measure is not a City
Council function!

As we try to survive this global pandemic using social distancing and sheltering in place | believe it is very
counterintuitive to think going higher and denser is a reasonable alternative to helping us to survive not only this
pandemic but ones which may be even worse in the future.

The developer sponsored petition will just have to wait its turn to attempt to get on a ballot whenever they are able to
proceed. Our measure also had to wait (signatures gathered in 2018) but delayed by the City Council and now is it’s
time to be on the ballot in November.

It is time for the Voter's not the City Council to decide if this is how we are to proceed in the future. Please do not stand
in the way of Democracy or deny the wishes of over 7,000 voters and probably many others who are tired of developers
directing the future of our City.

If our City Council wants to focus on public health as Mr. Goethals and Mr. Bonilla have stated maybe the City should be
looking at halting progress on any proposed development projects unti} this crisis is past us and the ramifications of our
new normal can be assessed. This would allow additionai City personnel to be used in helping to alleviate our current
situation.

Yours truly

James W. White

&nbsp;
556 of&nbsp;574


--- page 557 ---
Patrice Olds

From: ROB GISSON [i

Sent: Saturday, April 25, 2020 1:02 PM

To: Eric Rodriguez; Rick Bonilla; Diane Papan; Amourence Lee
Ce: Patrice Olds

Subject: voting

Dear Council member, as a lifelong San Mateo resident | was shocked and dismayed to read in the
Aprit 20th edition of The Daily Journal that our mayor had taken it upon himself to consider

removing the height initiative measure from our ballot. If this is fegal it shouldn't be.

He stated that he did not want “to divide the community". Voting is the ‘sine qua non’ of any
democracy. The vote will settle the issue and bring the community back together. To suppress voting
continues the divide.

The Mayor went on to state that we need to, “...keep our focus on the most important issue right now
and that’s public health." The mayor doesn't seem to realize that it's not an ‘either or' situation, we can
chew gum and walk at the same time. Voting on one issue does not necessarily take our focus off of
other issues. All these issues are important and the people of SM realize this. Please don't presume
that we don't.

The signatures were collected legally and at great effort. To refuse to put it on the ballot strikes at the
very heart of the democratic process. Additionally, have you given any thought to the precedent this
will set?

Please don't let the mayor get away with this.

&nbsp;
557 of&nbsp;574


--- page 558 ---
Patrice Olds
ec aati

From: Jennifer Uhl

Sent: Saturday, April 25, 2020 12:52 PM
Ta: City Council (San Mateo)

Cc: Patrice Olds

Subject: Height Limit Extension

Honorable Members of the City Council,

lam writing concerning your idea to not place Measure P on the November, 2020 ballot.
7000 residents of San Mateo willingly signed to have this Initiative placed on that ballot.

On 8/16/I8 you, Mr. Goethals made the following statement at a meeting, “I do very much want to honor the signatures
on the initiative.

People should leave here tonight understanding at a minimum that the initiative as it is written will be placed on the
ballot in 2020”.

Mr. Goethals, | expect and request that you honor your statement. Please don’t use the Covid-19 virus as your latest
excuse not to honor the will

of the people.

Respectfully submitted,
Jennifer Uhi

&nbsp;
558 of&nbsp;574


--- page 559 ---
Patrice Olds

From: Christie Ricci

Sent: Saturday, April 25, 2020 12:43 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo)

Ce: Patrice Olds

Subject: Please Place Measure P Height Limit Extention on the Ballot

Hello San Mateo City Council Members,

lama current San Mateo resident. My family and | have lived here for 24 years. We ask that you please put
the Measure P height limit extension measure on the ballot, which is what the San Mateo citizens desire.

| agree with the letter recently published in the San Mateo Daily Journal by Bill Williams that Measure P most
certainly go on the ballot. The citizens of San Mateo have done everything that was legally required to get the
Measure P extension placed on the ballot.

| thank you for your service to San Mateo and hope that you will take action that supports what the citizens
have rightfully requested.

Sincerely,
Christie Ricci

&nbsp;
559 of&nbsp;574


--- page 560 ---
Patrice Olds

From:
Sent:
To:

Ce:
Subject:

kur Ricci

Saturday, April 25, 2020 12:39 PM

City Council (San Mateo)

Patrice Olds

Please Place Measure P Height Limit Extention on the Ballot

Hello San Mateo City Council Members,

lam a current San Mateo resident. My family and J have lived here for 24 years. We ask that you please put
the Measure P height limit extension measure on the ballot, which is what the San Mateo citizens desire,

1 agree with the letters recently published in the San Mateo Daily Journal by Bill Williams that Measure P most
certainly go on the ballot. The citizens of San Mateo have done everything that was legally required to get the
Measure P extension placed on the ballot.

| thank you for your service to San Mateo and hope that you will take action that supports what the citizens

have rightfully requested.

Sincerely,
Kurt Ricci

&nbsp;
560 of&nbsp;574


--- page 561 ---
Patrice Olds

From: Mo

Sent: Saturday, April 25, 2020 11:05 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo)

Ce: Patrice Olds

Subject: Joe Goethals, Rick Bonilla and Members of the City Council: Measure P MUST be Placed

on November 2020 Ballot

To Joe Goethals, Rick Bonilla and Members of the City Council:

| am writing to express my outrage that Joe Goethals and the City Council are even considering denying my right to vote
on Measure P in November 2020.

Over 7000 San Mateans signed the petition to put Measure P on the November 2020 ballot. The proposal by Joe
Goethals’ to suppress the legal right to vote on a measure is something that | thought only happened in other parts of the
country, certainly not here in San Mateo.

| took Joe Goethals at his word when he said, "| do very much want to honor the signatures on the initiative. People
should leave here tonight understanding at a minimum that the initiative as it is written will be placed on the ballot in
2020." It is nothing short of outrageous that Joe Goethals would dishonor San Mateans and go against his own word.

| am a home owner in San Mateo who greatly values the democratic spirit of our community. This proposal by Joe
Goethals' and agreed to by Rick Bonilla goes against everything that San Mateo stands for. We San Mateans have a right

to vote on a Measure P in November 2020.

It is unacceptable and unthinkable that Joe Goethals’ would even entertain the idea of denying San Mateans the right to
vote on a measure that the City Council LEGALLY must place on the November ballot.

There is no excuse to delay the vote on Measure P. Delaying the vote on Measure P is iflegal and an affront to all San
Mateans.

| look forward to voting in November. | will not let anything stop me from exercising my right to vote and | fully expect
to exercise my right to vote on Measure P which LEGALLY MUST BE PLACED ON THE NOVEMBER 2020 BALLOT.

Sincerely,

Mary Beavins

&nbsp;
561 of&nbsp;574


--- page 562 ---
Patrice Olds

From: Naomi Ture

Sent: Saturday, April 25, 2020 9:21 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo); Patrice Olds

Subject: Put Measure P on the ballot - We have a right to vote on our own city's height limit
Dear Council,

| write because the residents of San Mateo have gathered all the needed signatures on Measure P and we have the right to vote
on the height limits of our own town.

The Mayor's suggestion that the Measure P extension NOT go on this November's baliot interrupts our democratic process. He
promised it would be on the bailot. Please do what is right, and put Measure P on the November 2020 ballot.

Thank you,

Naomi Ture
San Mateo resident

&nbsp;
562 of&nbsp;574


--- page 563 ---
Patrice Olds

From: Kathleen Ross

Sent: Saturday, April 25, 2020 8:35 AM

To: City Council (San Mateo)

Ce: Patrice Olds

Subject: Put the issue of building heights for San Mateo on the Ballot!!t!

Council Members

| do not understand why you are are against ( unwilling) placing this issue on the ballot. The
discussions have been going on for what feels like far too long. There have been significant issues in
the past that have been brought to the voting process in less time than this has taken.

There is much discussion about the possible pressure being applied to Council members by

the development interests to delay this process. However, | believe that it is possible to turn your
supporters in the community against you come re-election if you continue to fail to take action and
allow us to be heard.

Please. Just do your duty as our elected representatives and place the issue of height limits on the
ballot. Bring this controversy to an end and let us exercise our democratic rights.

Kathleen Ross

&nbsp;
563 of&nbsp;574


--- page 564 ---
Patrice Olds

From: Susan Dirksen

Sent: Friday, April 24, 2020 9:24 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo)
Subject: Mayor

Council members,
Please put the height limit on the ballot. The citizens have a right to decide.

Keep in mind that it just might be possible to remove members who want to sneak one past the voters. Nota threat, an
observation.

Sincerely,
Susan Dirksen

Sent from my iPhone

&nbsp;
564 of&nbsp;574


--- page 565 ---
Patrice Olds
Aaa eater TTT Ta a aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa ass uasmmatanaaiaims,

From: Diane

Sent: Friday, April 24, 2020 8:13 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo)

Ce: Patrice Olds

Subject: Height limit

Dear Counsel Members,

Please do not let our Mayor ignore the will of his constituents, put the height limit on the ballot. San Mateo is changing
and not for the better. Please listen.

Thank you,

Diane Smith

Sent from my iPad

&nbsp;
565 of&nbsp;574


--- page 566 ---
Patrice Olds
Gi

From: D Shum

Sent: Friday, April 24, 2020 7:57 PM
To: Patrice Olds

Subject: Measure P Extension

Dear Council Members

Please honor the 7000 signatures on the initiative and put the proposed extension of Measure P on the November
2020 ballot.

The current health situation is not a factor in this case.
All the discussion regarding this issue was concluded in 2018 when the measure should have gone on the
ballot. More public meeting are not needed. This should be a simple administrative action by the Council.

In 20148, Mayor Goethals stated at a Council meeting concerning the extension of Measure P, “People should leave
here tonight understanding at a minimum, that the initiative as it is written will be place on the ballot in 2020”.

Help Mayor Goethals honor my and other San Mateans' signatures on the initiative. We followed and completed the
procedures for placing the initiative on the ballot. Now it is time for the City Council to do its part and put it on the
ballot and let the voters of San Mateo decide the issue.

Respectfully,

David Shum
San Mateo Village Resident and Board member of San Mateo/Glendale Village Neighborhood Association

&nbsp;
566 of&nbsp;574


--- page 567 ---
Patrice Olds
a eed

From:

Sent: Friday, April 24, 2020 7:32 PM
To: Patrice Olds

Subject: San Mateo city height limits
Dear Sir

| have been a resident and homeowner in San Mateo in a homeowner ifor the last 25 years.

| signed, along with 7,000 other San Mateo residents to maintain height limits in our city. We deserve and
have the right to vote on this initiative in November.

Tam extremely dismayed at any suggestion that this would not be put on the ballot in November. Please
do the right thing and back the citizens of San Mateo to ensure this is on the ballot!!!

Christine Heckford

&nbsp;
567 of&nbsp;574


--- page 568 ---
Patrice Olds

From: chery! Zui
Sent: Friday, April 24, 2020 6:43 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo); Patrice Olds
Subject: Measure P- Mon Apr 27 meeting
4-24-20

Re: Measure P
Dear Council Members,

I am long time homeowner in San Mateo, since 1988. I have also served on the Beautification
Committee for the home association, and served 8 years on the Community Improvement
Commission.

Homeowners and residents like myself love this city for the charm and smail town feel it offers by
way of reasonable height limits, especially in the downtown and residential areas where we live and
shop.

Measure P is set to be placed on the ballet in November for all residents to cast there Vote regarding
whether we protect these height limits, or allow our small town feel to be destroyed forever, turning
San Mateo into just another mess of tall buildings that no one will want to live in or visit.

The citizens have done all that was legally required to place Measure P on this November ballet, over
7000 residents in all! I am impressed!

The reason for this letter is to confirm that no one presses you, our Council members, to in any way
disrupt this measure from being placed on the November ballet so ail of us can have the opportunity
to vote on this very important matter.

Thank you,

Cheryl Zuffi

&nbsp;
568 of&nbsp;574


--- page 569 ---
Patrice Olds

From: Dorothy O'Callahan i

Sent: Friday, April 24, 2020 6:39 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo)

Ce: Patrice Oids

Subject: Height Limits

Keep current height\ limits in effect to preserve the suburban nature of our community! You were elected to preserve
that Thank you. Dorothy O'Callahan

&nbsp;
569 of&nbsp;574


--- page 570 ---
Patrice Olds
ole

From: Dorothy O'Callahan

Sent: Friday, April 24, 2020 6:30 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo)
Subject: Height Limits

Please make sure the height limits proposal is one the ballot.! join SMRG ub opposition to Goethals proposal. Dorothy
O'Callahan

&nbsp;
570 of&nbsp;574


--- page 571 ---
Patrice Olds
Gd

From: Holly Hewitt

Sent: Monday, April 20, 2020 4:46 PM
To: Patrice Olds

Subject: November Ballot measure

Dear Mayor Goethals;

After a 2 year delay, using the “reason” as 2018 was not a general election, To suggest it not be placed on the 2020
ballot is more than unfair.

Those of us who gathered the more than 7,000 signatures deserve to let the citizens of San Mateo have their say on
measure P.

The general plan update had previously been used as a reason to hold off.

The only developer who will benefit the most is Bohannon, especially if he believes he can pay inlieu fees and not have
any below market units.

The measure should be on the November ballot. We have been patient.

Holly H. Hewitt

Sent from my iPad

&nbsp;
571 of&nbsp;574


--- page 572 ---
Patrice Olds

LL Aaa Tr TE TAT ReldeeERnN

From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Dear City Council:

San Mateo United Homeowners Association <sanmateounitedhoa@gmail.com>
Wednesday, April 29, 2020 11:18 AM

City Council (San Mateo); Drew Corbett

Clarification of SMUHA Letter

In response to recent Council statements tying SMUHA's April 14th email letter to the City with any suggestion
of delay for a ballot measure, let us be clear that SMUHA's letter had nothing to do with the ballot

measure. SMUHA supports voters’ rights. SMRG successfully accomplished all requirements, including
surpassing the required number of signatures, for representation on the 2020 ballot. Any denial of this

democratic process will be viewed as voter suppression by our community.

Regards,
Mike Nash
President

» SMUHA

Se owwacoumne A

Zp, AN GCIATION

&nbsp;
572 of&nbsp;574


--- page 573 ---
Mayor Goethals April 27, 2020
330 West 20" Ave

San Mateo, CA 94403

Re: Measure P extension

Dear Mayor Goethals,

We implore you to place the Measure P extension on the November 2020
ballot as you promised in the August 6, 2018 City Council meeting.

You were elected you to represent and administer the will of the citizens of
San Mateo, not to be a handmaid to special interest groups.

We were born and raised in San Francisco and eventually became annoyed at
the influx of so many people, the construction of the many tall buildings, the
traffic, and the lack of parking.

So we moved to San Mateo. The last thing we want is for you to turn this
beautiful city in to a congested, tall building metropolis.

Thank you for your attention to this matter.
Sincerely, |

William and Barbara Cendak

&nbsp;
573 of&nbsp;574


--- page 574 ---
William J. Cenda

San Mateo City Council April 27, 2020
330 West 20" Ave.

San Mateo, CA 94403

Re: Measure P extension

Dear Council Members,

We ask that you, as a body, place the Measure P extension on the November
2020 ballot as it is your legal duty.

The City Council as well as the Mayor were elected to represent and follow
the will of the citizens of the city of San Mateo not to be a “rubberstamp” for
the Mayor and or special interest groups who have no obligations to us.

The citizens of San Mateo passed Measure P to keep the city of San Mateo
from becoming another San Francisco.

We moved here from San Francisco due to the the increased population, un-
checked growth, excessive building, traffic and parking woes.

Please perform your duties as mandated.

Sincerely,

William and Barbara Cendak

&nbsp;
574 of&nbsp;574
