source: packet.pdf
sha256: d1f111133e3da22ef7470fd2ef3ee5a7713bb27ae022b63995ad4923092f4887
pages: 178
ocr_pages: 23
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission
June 23, 2020
7:00 PM
Location: Remote
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Mike Etheridge, Chair
Ellen Mallory, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Ramiro Maldonado
Margaret Williams
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: June 23, 2020 Planning Commission Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Meeting ID – 817 8950 6746
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
Approve the minutes of the Planning Commission meeting of June 9, 2020.
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's jurisdiction
that are not on the agenda. Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of 15 minutes
for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's jurisdiction. The
Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the agenda, but shall
refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 of the San Mateo
Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those issues raised at the
public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing. Some public
hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
2.
Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Guidelines and General Plan Amendment
Adopt a resolution recommending City Council adoption of the General Plan Amendments to the Circulation
Element and make a motion to recommend City Council adoption of the proposed Transportation Impact Analysis
(TIA) Guidelines.

--- page 2 ---
3.
Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #1 MU2 and MU3 Modification Study Session – Design Review Focus (PA-2020-016)
That the Planning Commission review the proposed design, receive public comments, and provide input to the
applicant and staff on two main topics: Building design Preliminary requested exceptions to the Design Guidelines
NEW BUSINESS
4.
Election of Officers
Nominate and elect the Planning Commission Chair and Vice Chair.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and
can be viewed on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org.
Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the
agenda will be made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream. 1) Public Meeting Portal
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are
muted by default. To speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda.
To indicate you want to provide public comment, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations
to participate in this meeting may contact the Planning Division at planning@cityofsanmateo.org or (650) 522-7212.
Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-3184
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Kohar Kojayan
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
June 23, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Planning Commission meeting of June 9, 2020.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – 06-09-2020 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
STAFF CONTACT
Erin Fellers
Assistant to the City Clerk
efellers@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7040

--- page 4 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 06/09/20
Page 1
COMISSION MEMBERS
Mike Etheridge, Chair
Ellen Mallory, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Ramiro Maldonado
Margaret Williams
City of San Mateo 
Regular Meeting Minutes
Planning Commission
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Tuesday, June 9, 2020
Remote 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency.
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
Remote:    Mike Etheridge, Ellen Mallory, John Ebneter, Ramiro Maldonado, Margaret Williams
CONSENT CALENDAR 
1.
Planning Commission - Meeting Minutes Approval 
Approve the minutes of the Planning Commission meeting of April 28, 2020 and May 26, 2020. Motion passed 
5-0.
Moved: Mallory, Seconded: Maldonado
Ayes:  Etheridge, Mallory, Maldonado, Williams, Ebneter
Noes:  None
PUBLIC COMMENT
Carl Drake, China Bee Restaurant, expressed concerns regarding the City’s proposed closure of B Street between 1st Ave. 
and Baldwin Ave. to allow room for socially-distanced outdoor dining. Closing through traffic and parking spaces may 
impact take-out only establishments such as his own. 
STUDY SESSION
2.
Design Review for Concar Passage Mixed Use Project (PA-2018-052)
To avoid any perception of conflict of interest, Commission Chair Mike Etheridge recused himself from the Study 
Session. Commission Chair Etheridge left the meeting at 7:10pm. Commissioner Mallory took over as Chair the 
remainder of the meeting.
Interim Senior Planner Rendell Bustos provided a presentation briefing the commission on the history of the 
project and the purpose of the study session. Applicants Brian Myers introduced MVE Architects Design Lead 
Pieter Berger, who gave an update on design changes.
Commissioners asked questions of staff. The Commission Chair opened the Public Comment period.
Public Comment – Barbara Niss expressed concern regarding parking spaces for residents, the proximity of the 
daycare facility to the freeway, traffic mitigation, and impacts to neighborhood parking. Adam Loraine shared 
appreciation for the addition of bike lanes, pedestrian considerations, open spaces and parks. Caroline Shepard,

--- page 5 ---
Planning Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 06/09/20
Page 2
resident of Belmont, requested that the applicant consider the need for more affordable housing units, and noted 
the design’s creative concepts. Maya Togashi, sidewalks sometimes not wide enough for comfort and safety. 
Commissioners asked questions of staff and provided comments. 
Commissioner Ebneter noted that staff and the applicant have been consistent in implementing changes and that 
the architectural changes are striking. Ebneter praised the parking components, additional open space, use of 
union labor, and affordable housing units. Commissioner Maldonado would like to see increase in affordable 
housing and increase the outdoor space. Maldonado noted the great architectural design and appreciation for the 
childcare center for the new community. Commissioner Williams expressed appreciation for the effort made to 
educate her on the project and noted staff and applicant’s responsiveness to comments. Williams wanted to 
ensure that the units for low-income residents don’t look distinctly different from market rate units. Vice Chair 
Mallory encouraged commenters to participate in the General Plan Process. Mallory remarked how the space 
offers the opportunity to create a fresh, new community. Mallory suggested that the section where the roadway 
becomes a roundabout needed to better identify the transition. Mallory commented on the design styles, citing 
preference for styles one, four and five. 
No vote was taken. 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Planning Manager Aaron Aknin reminded the Commission of important planning-related items going to Council in June 
and July.
ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned at 9:11 p.m.
APPROVED BY:
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                           __
                                                           
Mike Etheridge, Commission Chair 
Erin Fellers, Planning Secretary

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 20-3092
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Brad Underwood
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 23, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Guidelines and General Plan Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a resolution recommending City Council adoption of the General Plan Amendments to the Circulation Element and 
make a motion to recommend City Council adoption of the proposed Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Guidelines.
BACKGROUND:
The purpose of this agenda report is to introduce the draft Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Guidelines and a 
supporting draft General Plan Amendment for Planning Commission review and recommendation to City Council. The TIA 
Guidelines have been developed to implement vehicle miles traveled (VMT) as the transportation analysis metric for 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) analysis, and to formalize the City’s procedures for transportation analysis 
outside of CEQA, including provision for certain criteria under which a project may be “screened out” from CEQA analysis.
A TIA evaluates potential negative effects of proposed projects on the City’s transportation network, in part by assessing 
future conditions of the circulation network both with and without the proposed future project. If a CEQA transportation 
analysis is required, the TIA will determine if those effects constitute a significant impact, and if so, how those impacts can 
be mitigated to a less than significant level. Additionally, analysis in addition to that required by CEQA may be conducted 
to assess any issues that may indicate non-conformance with locally adopted plans. TIA guidelines serve to provide a 
framework establishing the expected analyses for the City, and the requirements projects are expected to adhere to 
regarding transportation analyses. 
Transportation analysis conducted by the City under CEQA has historically evaluated Level of Service (LOS) and vehicle 
delay at intersections to assess localized traffic impacts as a result of planned development.  As a result of the passage of 
California Senate Bill 743 (SB 743), the state sets the intent and goals for transportation analysis to more directly tie 
impacts of development projects to the overarching state goals of greenhouse gas emissions reduction and increase in 
multimodal transportation options.  To this end, SB 743 eliminates LOS, vehicle delay, or other similar measures of 
vehicular capacity or congestion as the metric to assess significant transportation impacts under CEQA. To align 
transportation analysis with state goals for climate change and active transportation, the Governor’s Office of Policy and 
Research (OPR) developed guidelines for new metrics to utilize in CEQA transportation analyses. OPR published a final 
technical advisory, based on stakeholder engagement and feedback, during December 2018 that identifies Vehicle Miles 
Traveled (VMT) as the required metric for transportation analysis under CEQA. The draft TIA Guidelines prepared for the 
City of San Mateo present the policy for VMT analysis for CEQA. 
In addition to the TIA guidelines, an amendment to the General Plan Circulation Element is proposed to provide the policy 
framework for the TIA Guidelines and modification in use of Level of Service in local transportation analysis. As currently 
written, the Circulation Element contains requirements for development projects to adhere to specific LOS standards.

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
However, these requirements are tied to CEQA determination of significant impact. Given transportation analysis under 
CEQA is now required to utilize VMT, staff has proposed these General Plan amendments to remove the link between 
CEQA and LOS in order to utilize local transportation analysis to assess operational improvements that may be necessary 
beyond identified environmental impacts.
Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Guidelines
The TIA guidelines provide processes for analyzing the potential transportation impact of land use and transportation 
projects for both CEQA review and the City’s adopted local plans. The guidelines were created to provide a consistent 
methodology to analyze environmental impacts and operational effects for local projects. The TIA guidelines include:

Parameters for when transportation analysis is required;

Guidance on determination of impacts and negative effects;

Technical processes for calculating VMT for projects;

Mitigation measures for VMT impacts and local plan requirements for negative LOS effects;

Required analysis for CEQA and local transportation purposes.
CEQA Analysis Requirements
Under the proposed TIA guidelines, when a development project is received, the staff evaluation will determine whether a 
potential for environmental impacts exists and a VMT analysis is required. The proposed TIA guidelines contain screening 
criteria to streamline this process, and quickly determine types of projects that are assumed to have a less than significant 
VMT impact. A TIA with VMT analysis of all transportation impacts would be required for those projects that do not 
“screen out” based on the procedure outlined in the flow chart below.

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The following screening criteria are consistent with OPR’s Technical Advisory, and are included in the City’s policy. Criteria 
that differ from OPR’s guidelines are noted. 
Project that meet one or more of the following criteria do not require further VMT review:

Location
o
OPR recommendation: Projects within ½ mile of a major transit stop (e.g. Caltrain) or a high-quality transit 
stop (e.g. SamTrans ECR stops in San Mateo)

Size
o
OPR Recommendation: “Small projects” with fewer than 110 daily trips may be screened out
o
City modification: Projects that generate or attract fewer than 110 vehicle trips per day are presumed to 
have a less than significant VMT impact. 
Land Use Type
Number of Units/ Square 
Feet
Corresponding Daily Trips
Single Family 
Residential
10 Dwelling Units
110
Multi-Family Residential
11 Dwelling Units
104
Office
11,000 SF
107

Project Type
o
OPR recommendation: 100% affordable housing in infill locations near transit may be screened out
o
City modification: Any 100% affordable housing project, regardless of location, may be screened out
Projects not screened out based on these criteria will be required to conduct a full VMT analysis under CEQA, beginning 
with a detailed evaluation of the VMT generated by the project. The VMT calculated for a project will be based on a 
specific population to assess the effects of the project as they relate to specific groups of people making those trips. This 
would be determined as either VMT per employee for office projects or VMT per resident for residential projects. The 
average VMT per capita and per employee has been assessed for each audience based on City average and County 
average. 
For City projects, the County will be utilized as the baseline geographic area to best assess the transportation impacts of 
projects; the City average does not provide sufficient information given the large percentage of trips beyond the City’s 
borders. As such, projects that generate VMT greater than 15% below the San Mateo County average VMT rate (by service 
population) would be identified as creating a VMT impact. These values are noted in grey shade below (e.g. County 
average per capita VMT is 15.5, and the 15% below average value is 13.1 VMT per capita).
Further, the thresholds to determine impact is identified by each land use category.

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Land Use Type
Impact Threshold
Residential
Projects greater than 15% below average 
County VMT/capita
Office
Projects greater than 15% below average 
County VMT/employee
Retail
A net increase in total VMT
Other Land Uses
City will make a determination of applicable 
thresholds on a case-by-case basis based on 
land use type, project description, and 
setting.
Mixed Use Projects
Evaluate each component separately and 
apply the impact threshold for each land 
use type
Projects identified as generating a VMT impact would be required to mitigate the impact to a less than significant level. As 
contained within the TIA guidelines, mitigation strategies for VMT impacts include:

Modifying the project to remove the impact

Transportation Demand Management (TDM) measures

Paying into a VMT “bank” or other program such as a future City fee program to provide projects that reduce VMT 
throughout the City of San Mateo
Local Transportation Analysis Requirements
All projects will be reviewed for consistency with City-adopted plans, despite not being required per CEQA. This includes 
the City’s General Plan, Climate Action Plan, etc. SB 743 does not prescribe the method by which cities conduct 
transportation analysis for local impacts or for conformance with locally adopted plans. In other words, City’s may still 
conduct LOS analysis as required by local plans and policies, however, findings from the LOS analysis will not be applicable 
to the CEQA review.
In May, staff received City Council direction regarding how to conduct local transportation analysis moving forward to 
ensure compliance with the standards currently set in the General Plan. City Council opted to utilize Level of Service (LOS) 
in a limited geographic area for each project to assess project access and circulation with respect to the local roadway 
network, and to assess potential negative effects of the project on local roadways beyond that which is assessed through 
CEQA analysis. The local transportation analysis process includes:

Data Collection and Study Periods: This subsection includes requirements for collecting traffic volumes and what 
analysis periods should be studied.

Study Area: Provides parameters for determining the appropriate study facilities (intersections and roadway 
segments along and adjacent to the project, as well as any locations determined in consultation with City staff). The 
limited LOS analysis is focused on project access and ensures that the analysis required correlates to the size of the 
project proposed.

Study Scenarios: Lists required scenarios to analyze with and without the project (Existing No/Plus Project and 
Horizon Year No/Plus Project scenarios). 

Forecasting: Provides guidance for forecasting horizon year volumes using the City of San Mateo travel demand 
model or other methodologies.

Operations Analysis Methodology: Provides the requirements for analyzing peak hour intersection operations 
under the Highway Capacity Manual (HCM) methodology and roadway segments under the 24-hour volume over 
capacity (V/C) methodology. 

LOS Standards: Outlines LOS standards based on the General Plan that the City strives to maintain.

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

Other Analysis Requirements: This section will discuss non-LOS analysis requirements consisting of on-site 
assessments of driveway queuing, internal vehicular and non-vehicular circulation, driveway sight distance, and code 
consistency checks, and when these analyses will be required. This subsection will also include guidance on 
coordinating with other jurisdictions such as Caltrans, C/CAG, and adjacent cities if a project may affect another 
jurisdiction’s facilities.
General Plan Amendment
The City’s current Circulation Element of the General Plan contains numerous policies requiring that development projects 
adhere to a stated LOS standard.  Specifically, Policy C2.1 identifies the City’s standard as “Maintain a Level of Service no 
worse than mid LOS D, average delay of 45.0 seconds, as the acceptable Level of Service for all intersections within the 
City.” Further, Policy C2.7 details requirements for development projects to fund off-site circulation improvements if the 
project-generated traffic degrades the performance of the transportation network below these thresholds. 
In order to determine when transportation improvements beyond payment of the City’s transportation impact fee (TIF) 
will be required, the Circulation Element states that additional improvements will be required when traffic impacts have 
been deemed “significant” in a CEQA analysis.  General Plan Policy C2.7 defines “significance” by LOS.  The CEQA-specific 
language in the General Plan policies and the requirement for use of VMT under CEQA limits the City’s ability to utilize 
these policies to implement transportation improvements to negate adverse effects of increased congestion.
The City, led by the Community Development Department, is currently updating the General Plan, which is expected to be 
complete in 2023. Through this update process, the City will have the opportunity to evaluate potential, new 
transportation metrics, to assess local effects of development projects outside of CEQA, and to consider if LOS is the 
transportation metric for use in the future. However, during this interim time period between when the new VMT policy 
and TIA Guidelines are adopted and when General Plan 2040 will be complete, staff recommends modifications to allow 
the City to continue with local transportation analysis (e.g., LOS analysis) consistent with Council direction. The local 
analysis will be in addition to CEQA VMT analysis.  The proposed General Plan amendment will modify those sections of 
the current General Plan to sever the tie between CEQA and LOS, and to support local transportation analysis to 
supplement CEQA analysis in assessing operational improvements that may be necessary beyond identified environmental 
impacts.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this item.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Review and recommendation for the TIA Guidelines is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).)  Adoption of the resolution recommending City Council adoption of the General Plan Amendments to 
the Circulation Element is not a project subject to CEQA in that it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that 
the amendments will cause a significant impact to the environment. The purpose of the General Plan amendments is to 
allow the City to continue the use of Level of Service standards to impose ad hoc exactions.  
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Draft Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Guidelines
Att 2 – Draft General Plan Circulation Element Revisions
Att 3 – Draft Resolution
Att 4 – Screening Criteria and Key Recommendations Memo
Att 5 – Thresholds Considerations Memo

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner 
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7288
Aaron Aknin, Contract Planning Manager
aaknin@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7203

--- page 12 ---
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT 
ANALYSIS GUIDELINES 
City of San Mateo, CA 
June 17, 2020

--- page 13 ---
1 
1. INTRODUCTION 
The Transportation Impact Analysis Guidelines document provides guidance to city staff, applicants, 
and consultants on the requirements to evaluate transportation impacts for projects in the City of 
San Mateo (City). It is intended: 
 to promote conformance with applicable city and state regulations; 
 to provide evaluation consistent with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA); 
 to ensure consistency in preparation of studies by applicants and consultants and 
 provide predictability in content for staff and the public in reviewing studies.  
Although these guidelines are intended to be comprehensive, not all aspects of every 
transportation analysis can be addressed in this framework. City staff reserve the right to use 
judgement to request exemptions and/or to modify requirements for specific projects at the time of 
the review application. 
1.1. 
BACKGROUND  
The Transportation Impact Analysis Guidelines specifically address the requirements of California 
Senate Bill (SB) 743 which mandated specific types of CEQA analysis of transportation projects 
effective July 1, 2020. 
1.1.1. SB 743 Requirements 
Prior to implementation of SB 743, CEQA transportation analyses of individual projects typically 
determines impacts on the circulation system in terms of roadway delay and/or capacity usage at 
specific locations, such as street intersections or freeway segments. Senate Bill 743 (SB 743), signed 
into law in September 2013, required changes to the guidelines for CEQA transportation analysis. 
The changes include the elimination of auto delay, level of service (LOS), and other similar measures 
of vehicular capacity or traffic congestion as a basis for determining significant impacts. The 
purpose of SB 743 is to promote the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the development of 
multimodal transportation networks, and a diversity of land uses. 
Under SB 743, a project’s effect on automobile delay shall not constitute a significant 
environmental impact. Therefore, level of service (LOS) and other similar vehicle delay or capacity 
metrics can no longer serve as transportation impact metrics for CEQA analysis. The California 
Office of Planning and Research (OPR) has updated the CEQA Guidelines and provided a final 
technical advisory in December 2018, which recommends vehicle miles traveled (VMT) as the most 
appropriate measure of transportation impacts under CEQA. The California Natural Resources 
Agency certified and adopted the CEQA Guidelines including the Guidelines section implementing 
SB 743. The changes have been approved by the Office of the Administrative Law and are now in 
effect.

--- page 14 ---
2 
1.1.2. Local Transportation Analysis 
Revisions to CEQA transportation analysis requirements do not preclude the application of local 
general plan policies, municipal and zoning codes, conditions of approval, or any other planning 
requirements through a city’s planning approval process. These requirements aim to ensure 
adequate operation of the transportation system in terms of transportation congestion measures 
related to vehicular delay and roadway capacity. As such, the City of San Mateo continues to apply 
congestion‐related transportation impact analysis and mitigation for land development projects 
through planning approval processes outside CEQA. These requirements are discussed in Section 3, 
Local Transportation Analysis.  
1.2. 
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS REPORTS 
A transportation impact analysis (TIA) report typically consists of two types of analysis, which this 
manual provides guidance for: 
1. CEQA Analysis 
2. Local Transportation Analysis 
Not all projects require both analyses. For example, a project could meet the screening criteria for 
being located in a high‐quality transit area and be exempt from the preparation of a detailed CEQA 
VMT analysis. Such a project may only be required to provide a local transportation analysis. 
1.2.1. CEQA Analysis 
The CEQA analysis consists of evaluation measures including conflicts with circulation policies, 
vehicle miles travelled (VMT), hazards and emergency access. The quantitative methodology, 
significance thresholds and mitigation measures for conducting the transportation analysis are 
primarily based on VMT metrics. The analyses related to VMT are part of the environmental review 
process and must meet CEQA requirements. 
1.2.2. Local Transportation Analysis 
The City can require local non‐CEQA analysis to address traffic operations, safety issues and needed 
project design features related to a proposed land use project, as well as to analyze site access and 
internal circulation. The local transportation analysis may be used to assess transportation effects in 
relation to the City’s policies in the General Plan and other planning documents.

--- page 15 ---
3 
2. CEQA ANALYSIS REQUIREMENTS 
This section discusses the requirements for conducting analyses for projects under environmental 
review, consistent with requirements from SB 743. Under CEQA, a lead agency has the authority to 
determine its own significance thresholds and methodologies for technical analysis, taking into 
account its own development patterns, policy goals and context.  Lead agencies can make their own 
specific decisions regarding methodology and thresholds, presuming their choices are supported by 
substantial evidence. 
The CEQA Appendix G Environmental Checklist Form identifies the following four impact types for 
transportation: 
a) Would the project conflict with a program, plan, ordinance or policy addressing the 
circulation system, including transit, roadway, bicycle and pedestrian facilities? 
b) Would the project conflict with or be inconsistent with CEQA Guidelines section 15064.3, 
subdivision (b) (requirement to use VMT)? 
c) Would the project substantially increase hazards due to a geometric feature or incompatible 
uses? 
d) Would the project result in inadequate emergency access? 
Consistent with State CEQA Guidelines section 15064.3, the City of San Mateo has adopted 
thresholds of significance to determine when a project will have a significant transportation impact 
based on VMT. The City has developed screening criteria to streamline the analysis for projects that 
meet certain criteria, referred to as project screening.  
2.1. 
LAND USE PROJECTS 
This section provides information for analyzing individual land use projects, including the process to 
aid in deciding if a detailed VMT analysis is needed for a land use project. Figure 1 presents a flow 
chart depicting how a land use project would be analyzed under VMT‐based metrics.  
2.1.1. Project Screening 
A project requires a detailed VMT analysis unless it meets at least one of the city’s five screening 
criteria: 
1. Small projects 
2. Provision of affordable housing 
3. Local‐serving retail 
4. Project located in a High‐Quality Transit Area (HQTA) 
5. Project located in low VMT area 
Figure 2 presents a chart depicting how a land use project would be analyzed under the proposed 
screening criteria. A project that meets at least one of the screening criteria would have a less than 
significant VMT impact due to project or location characteristics.

--- page 16 ---
H:\24\24441 - City of San Mateo Transportation On-Call\design\Exhibits\Flow_chart_figs.dwg      Jun 15, 2020 - 8:23pm -  ccasey      Layout Tab: Layout1
Land Use Projects VMT Analysis Flow Chart
San Mateo, CA
1
June 2020
Figure

--- page 17 ---
H:\24\24441 - City of San Mateo Transportation On-Call\design\Exhibits\Flow_chart_figs.dwg      Jun 15, 2020 - 8:26pm -  ccasey      Layout Tab: Layout1 (2)
Land Use Projects Screening Criteria Flow Chart
San Mateo, CA
2
June 2020
Figure

--- page 18 ---
6 
2.1.1.1. Small Projects 
Projects that generate or attract fewer than 110 vehicle trips per day are presumed to cause a less 
than significant VMT impact. Projects that typically generate 110 vehicle daily trips are shown in 
Error! Reference source not found.. 
 
Table 1: Sample Small Projects (less than 110 daily trips) 
Land Use Type 
Number of Units/ Square Feet 
Corresponding Daily Trips 
Single Family Residential 
10 Dwelling Units 
110 
Multi‐Family Residential 
11 Dwelling Units 
104 
Office 
11,000 SF 
107 
Trips calculated trip rates from the ITE Trip Generation Manual 10th Edition. 
2.1.1.2. Affordable Housing 
Residential projects with 100 percent deed restricted affordable housing are presumed to have a 
less than significant transportation impact. Affordable housing would be designated as for sale or 
rental housing below market‐rate.  If a project contains less than 100 percent affordable housing, 
the portion that is affordable should be screened out of needing a detailed VMT analysis. This 
applies to affordable housing projects anywhere in the City.  
2.1.1.3. Local‐Serving Retail and Public Services 
Projects that are locally serving retail with 50,000 square feet gross floor area or less are presumed 
to have a less than significant impact. This applies to the entirety of a retail project; for a mixed‐use 
project, this screening criteria should be applied to the retail/commercial component separately to 
determine if that portion of the project screens out of a detailed VMT analysis. 
The determination of local‐serving retail would be based on its location, the characteristics of the 
project and the vicinity of the site, as well as the envisioned goods and services the retail 
development would provide. Generally, local‐serving retail would primarily provide goods and 
services that most people need on a regular basis and are purchased close to where people live. 
Groceries, medicines, fast food and casual restaurants, fitness and beauty services are typical goods 
and services provided by local‐serving retail centers. 
Public services (e.g., police, fire stations, public utilities, neighborhood parks) generally do not 
generate VMT. Instead, these land uses are often built in response to development from other land 
uses (e.g., office and residential). Therefore, these land uses can be presumed to have less than 
significant impacts on VMT. However, this presumption would not apply if the project is sited in a 
location that would require employees or visitors to travel substantial distances and may require a 
detailed VMT analysis.

--- page 19 ---
7 
The City may require a project applicant to provide a market analysis to demonstrate that the 
project meets the characteristics of a neighboring retail development based on the goods and 
services provided relative to the geographic location, the customer base and other nearby retail 
uses.  
2.1.1.4. High‐Quality Transit Area (HQTA) 
Projects that are located in a high‐quality transit area (HQTA) would not require a detailed VMT 
analysis. Attachment A depicts the existing HQTA in the City as of June 2020. Currently, only Caltrain 
stations in the City are qualified as high‐quality transit. However, the City will monitor transit 
service changes and update the high‐quality transit map annually or as needed. 
The presumption to exempt a project from a detailed VMT analysis does not apply if the project:  
 has a floor area ratio (FAR) of less than 0.75; 
 includes more parking for use by residents, customers, or employees of the project than 
required by the jurisdiction (if the jurisdiction requires the project to supply parking); 
 is inconsistent with the applicable Metropolitan Transportation Commission’s (MTC) 
Sustainable Communities Strategy (SCS), as determined by the City; or 
 replaces affordable residential units with a smaller number of moderate‐ or high‐income 
residential units. 
2.1.1.5. Project Located in Low VMT Areas 
Residential and employment projects that are proposed in areas that generate VMT below adopted 
City thresholds are presumed to have a less than significant VMT impact and thus can be screened 
out. The City provides screening maps based on transportation analysis zones (TAZs) and results 
from the city’s travel model. The following types of projects may be screened out of detailed VMT 
analysis using this criterion: 
 
 Residential projects proposed in TAZs with total daily resident‐based VMT per capita that is 
15% less than the existing average baseline level for the County of San Mateo 
 Office or the employment portions of other non‐residential uses with total daily employee‐
based VMT per employee that is 15% less than the existing average baseline level for the 
County of San Mateo 
The VMT maps prepared in Attachment B denote TAZs that meet these thresholds in green.  
2.1.1.6. Consistency with RTP/ SCS 
If a proposed project is inconsistent with the adopted MTC Regional Transportation 
Plan/Sustainable Communities Strategy (RTP/SCS), the city will evaluate whether that inconsistency 
may result in a significant impact on transportation. Therefore, projects that are inconsistent with 
the RTP/SCS would not qualify for screening out of a detailed VMT analysis.

--- page 20 ---
8 
2.1.2. Significant Impact Thresholds 
For projects which do not meet any of the screening criteria, the City of San Mateo has adopted 
VMT thresholds for land use development projects based on a review of long range plans and 
policies for the City and for the Bay Area region. The City’s Climate Action Plan (CAP) sets an 
emissions reduction target of 15% below 2005 levels by 2020. The plan also targets lower per‐capita 
targets for 2030 and 2050. Furthermore, the Sustainable Communities Act from the State of 
California sets the Bay Area’s GHG target to 7% per capita reduction by 2020 and 15% per capita 
reduction by 2035. The intent of SB 743 is to bring CEQA transportation analyses into closer 
alignment with other statewide policies regarding GHG, complete streets, and smart growth. 
Therefore, using a threshold of 15% below average VMT for residential and office projects is 
consistent with established citywide and regional GHG emission goals.  Note: these goals are 
appropriate with the current SB 743 Legislation, but they may adjust in time as GHG emissions goals 
evolve. 
The OPR technical advisory recommends comparing a project’s estimated VMT/capita or 
VMT/employee to average values on a regional or citywide basis. For retail projects, total VMT 
within the area affected by the project is measured.   
The significance thresholds and specific VMT metrics used to indicate a significant transportation 
impact are described by land use type in Table 2. 
2.1.3. VMT Analysis Methodology 
Projects that do not meet the screening criteria must include a detailed evaluation of the VMT 
generated by the project. 
2.1.3.1. Regional Average VMT 
Regional average VMT per capita and VMT per employee values are determined using the city’s 
regional travel demand model.  
 The VMT per capita includes all home based trips made by residents, including their trips 
while away from home, but does not include trips visiting residences (such as delivery vans).  
 The VMT per employee includes trips made by employees to and from their workplaces, 
including trips to and from points other than the employees’ homes, but does not include 
visitors to the employment sites.  
2.1.3.2.  VMT per Capita or per Employee 
For residential or employment land uses where VMT/capita or VMT/employee are used to 
determine impacts, the following analysis methods are available: 
 The VMT/capita or VMT/employee may be looked up using the latest screening maps 
(Attachment B) and the TAZ (or TAZs) containing the project site.

--- page 21 ---
9 
 If the value for the TAZ is zero or significantly different than the values in surrounding TAZs 
due to a lack of land use data in the existing condition for the project TAZ, the City may 
allow the VMT/capita or VMT/employee to be based on an average of surrounding TAZs. 
Table 2: Impact Thresholds by Land Use Type 
Land Use Type 
Impact Threshold1 
Residential 
A significant impact occurs if a Proposed Project 
VMT/capita is greater than 15 percent below the existing 
San Mateo County average. 
 
Regional Average: 15.5 VMT/capita 
 
Impact Threshold:  13.1 VMT/capita 
Office 
A significant impact occurs if a Proposed Project 
VMT/employee is greater than 15 percent below the 
existing San Mateo County average. 
 
Regional Average: 18.0 VMT/employee 
 
Impact Threshold:  15.3 VMT/employee 
Retail 
A significant impact occurs if a Proposed Project  causes a  
net increase in total VMT.  
The total VMT for the region without and with the project is 
calculated. The difference between the two scenarios is the 
net change in total VMT that is attributable to the project. 
Other land uses 
The City will make a determination of the applicable 
thresholds on a case‐by‐case basis based on the land use 
type, project description and setting. Student housing and 
senior housing land uses should be treated as residential for 
screening and detailed VMT analysis. Research and 
development, industrial, medical offices, assisted living, and 
hospital projects may be evaluated as office projects using 
the VMT/employee metric. Projects such as hotels, private 
schools, grocery stores, local‐serving entertainment venues, 
religious institutions, regional parks, athletic clubs and 
medical offices should be treated as retail for detailed VMT 
analysis. 
Mixed‐Use Projects 
Evaluate each component of a mixed‐use project 
independently and apply the significance threshold for each 
land use type. Alternatively, the evaluation would apply

--- page 22 ---
10 
only the project’s dominant use if it generates 80% of the 
total daily trips. 
Note:  
Impact thresholds provided in this table represent the level used to indicate a significant 
transportation impact under VMT metrics. 
VMT Threshold values may change over time as updated traffic models or new ABAG land uses 
are adopted. 
2.1.3.3. Total VMT 
For land use projects that use total VMT to determine impacts (such as retail), total VMT may be 
calculated using the city’s travel model or another method backed by substantial evidence. 
 Smaller projects may use the total daily vehicle trip generation (determined using 
references such as the most current Institute of Transportation Engineers Trip Generation 
Manual) multiplied by an average trip length determined from the City’s model or a market 
research analysis. 
 If a proposed project would affect the balance of residential and non‐residential land uses in 
an area and is a relatively large project, it is recommended that the city’s model be rerun to 
include the proposed project, and total regional VMT calculated from the model results 
without and with the proposed project.   
2.1.3.4. Exclusion of Truck VMT 
It shall be noted that SB 743 does not apply to goods movement (i.e. trucks). Section 15064.3 of the 
CEQA Guidelines states that VMT for transportation impacts refers to. “… the amount and distance 
of automobile travel…”. Therefore, the VMT associated with trucks and the movement of goods is 
not required to be analyzed and mitigated for the evaluation of transportation impacts under CEQA.  
Projects that generate a substantial amount of truck traffic also generate automobile trips, 
therefore project‐related automobile trips would be subject to VMT analysis and mitigation. The 
VMT for all vehicles including heavy trucks related to a project will still be calculated as input for air 
quality, GHG, noise and energy impact analyses to be evaluated in non‐transportation parts of the 
environmental analysis. 
2.1.4. Redevelopment Projects  
If a project replaces existing uses and the project results in a net decrease in overall VMT, it may be 
presumed that the project would result in a less than significant impact. 
If a project replaces existing uses and the project leads to a net overall increase in VMT compared 
to the previous uses, then the thresholds for the new land uses should apply. If net VMT increases, 
then the appropriate VMT metrics and thresholds should be applied. For example, if a residential

--- page 23 ---
11 
project replaces an office project resulting in a net increase in VMT, the project’s VMT/capita 
should be compared with the thresholds for residential projects. If the project is a mixed‐use 
project, then the recommended approach for analyzing mixed‐use projects should be applied to 
analyze each individual use. 
2.1.5. Cumulative Impacts 
Per Section 15064 (h) (1) of the CEQA code, “when assessing whether a cumulative effect requires 
an EIR, the lead agency shall consider whether the cumulative impact is significant and whether the 
effects of the project are cumulatively considerable.”  
An analysis of cumulative impacts generally would fall under two categories: 
1. VMT per capita or per employee 
2. Total VMT 
These are described below. 
2.1.5.1. VMT per Capita or per Employee 
For land uses evaluated under an efficiency metric (VMT/capita for residential or VMT/employee 
for office/employment), if a project falls below the threshold it would also result in less than 
significant cumulative impacts. In other words, a project that falls below an efficiency‐based 
threshold would have no cumulative impact distinct from the project impact.  
2.1.5.2. Total VMT 
For land uses evaluated using total VMT (retail, hotels, etc.), when absolute VMT metrics (such as 
total VMT recommended for retail and transportation projects) are used, a cumulative VMT impact 
analysis may be appropriate. Projects must demonstrate consistency with the City of San Mateo 
General Plan to address cumulative impacts. A determination for consistency with the General Plan 
or RTP/SCS would be made by the Planning Commission or City Council and would be based on 
factors such as density, design, and consistency with the city’s General Plan goals and policies. 
Inconsistencies may be identified if the proposed land use quantities are beyond the designation for 
the project site in the General Plan or RTP/SCS, in which case the project may result in higher VMT 
compared to the applicable plan. 
If a project is consistent with the General Plan or RTP/SCS, it will be considered as part of the 
cumulative condition to meet the General Plan’s long‐range transportation goals, and therefore will 
result in a less than significant cumulative impact. If a project is not consistent with the General 
Plan, a cumulative impact analysis would be required to determine if the project would result in a 
net increase in VMT.

--- page 24 ---
12 
2.1.6.  Mitigation 
If a project would result in significant impacts, CEQA requires mitigation measures to be 
implemented to reduce or mitigate an impact. For VMT impacts, a combination of measures from 
several VMT reduction strategies may be implemented – project characteristics, multimodal 
improvements, parking, and TDM. VMT is reduced by implementing strategies that reduce the 
number of automobile trips generated by the project, shift more trips from automobile to non‐
automobile modes, and/or reduce the distances that people drive. Generally, these reductions can 
be achieved by the implementation of Transportation Demand Management (TDM) strategies. 
Measures to reduce VMT have been documented by several sources such as the California Air 
Resources Board (CARB) list of transportation and land use strategies for reducing greenhouse gas 
emissions, the SB 743 Implementation Project resources, the California Pollution Control Offices 
Association (CAPCOA) report on quantifying the greenhouse gas mitigation measures, more recent 
research for the West Riverside Council of Governments (WRCOG), and the SANDAG Mobility 
Management VMT Reduction Calculator Tool – Design Document.   
Projects for which impacts are determined to be significant are required to propose a list of VMT 
reduction measures and document the associated percent reduction in VMT. Project VMT is 
calculated by applying the percent reduction. Project VMT is then compared to the threshold of 
significance to evaluate the project’s CEQA transportation impact. The city will review and approve 
the proposed mitigation and the calculated VMT percentage reductions. 
2.2. 
TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS  
This section provided information for analyzing transportation projects on roads within the City’s 
jurisdiction. 
2.2.1. Determining Need for Detailed VMT Analysis 
The City of San Mateo requires an analysis of transportation projects if they are expected to 
increase VMT, primarily projects that encourage the use of single occupancy automobile such as the 
addition of through travel lanes. However, transportation projects that have already been 
specifically analyzed in a citywide plan (such as a General Plan update) may be exempt from a 
detailed VMT analysis. This exemption may be granted if the necessary VMT analysis and potential 
mitigations would have already been calculated and identified at the plan level. 
Conversely, projects that would likely not lead to an increase in vehicle travel, which promote use 
of transit and active transportation should not require a VMT analysis. Project types that would not 
likely lead to a substantial or measurable increase in vehicle travel and generally should not require 
a VMT analysis include: 
 road rehabilitation 
 safety projects

--- page 25 ---
13 
 auxiliary lanes less than one mile in length 
 turning lanes 
 conversion to managed or transit lanes 
 road diets 
 removal or relocation or parking spaces 
 addition of non‐motorized, transit, and active transportation facilities. 
These projects generally do not increase capacity enough to result in an impact for VMT. A full list is 
provided in Attachment C. 
This approach is consistent with the intent of SB 743 by promoting that VMT‐reducing projects will 
be streamlined and projects that have the potential to increase VMT will be thoroughly assessed 
and mitigated as appropriate. 
2.2.2. VMT Analysis for General Plan or RTP/SCS Projects 
For projects that have not been included in the General Plan or RTP/SCS or are modifications and 
replacements, any growth in VMT attributable to the transportation project would result in a 
significant impact. For example, a transportation project that replaces a project included in the 
General Plan and would generate less VMT compared to the project included in the General Plan 
would have a less than significant impact.  Projects not included in the General Plan or RTP/SCS 
would have a significant impact if they cause a net increase in VMT. 
2.2.3. VMT Analysis Methodology and Tools 
Projects that have already been included and evaluated in the General Plan or the RTP/SCS would 
have a less than significant impact.   
For transportation projects that require a detailed VMT analysis (e.g., increasing vehicular 
throughput or not included in a citywide plan), the City should require analysis using the most 
current travel demand model to estimate changes to citywide VMT due to rerouted trips. To 
capture long‐term effects, an induced demand assessment should be required using the following 
formula: 
[% increase in lane miles] x [existing VMT] x [elasticity] = [VMT resulting from the project] 
The city requires total VMT in the city as the appropriate VMT metric, with the impact threshold 
being any increase in total VMT. The analysis shall be performed for the long‐range horizon year, 
normally 20 years out. This approach would discourage induced demand impacts by requiring that a 
baseline level of VMT in the City not be exceeded.

--- page 26 ---
14 
2.2.4. Mitigation for Transportation Projects 
Mitigation measures for transportation projects generally seek to reduce VMT by discouraging more 
single passenger automobile travel or funding TDM measures. The following are potential 
mitigation measures for transportation projects: 
 
Tolling new lanes to encourage carpools and fund transit improvements; 
 
Converting existing general purpose lanes to HOV or HOT lanes;  
 
Implementing or funding off‐site travel demand management; and  
 
Implementing corridor signal coordination to improve traffic throughput on existing lanes. 
 
Implementing Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) strategies to improve passenger 
throughput on existing lanes.

--- page 27 ---
15 
3. LOCAL TRANSPORTATION ANALYSIS 
A non‐CEQA local transportation analysis may be required for land use projects in addition to the 
CEQA analysis to evaluate the effects of a development project on the circulation network, primarily 
on local access and circulation in the proximity of a project site. According to Policy C2.5 of the 
General Plan Circulation Element, the City requires site‐specific traffic studies for development 
projects where there may be a substantial adverse condition or effect on the local street 
system.  Traffic effects caused by a development project are considered to be unacceptable and 
warrant improvements if the addition of project traffic results in a cumulative intersection level of 
service exceeding the acceptable level established in Policy C‐2.1; where there may be safety 
hazards created; or where there may be other substantial effects on the circulation system. This 
analysis would address traffic operations, safety issues and needed project design features related 
to a proposed land use project, as well as site access and internal circulation. 
3.1. 
STUDY AREA 
At a minimum, the study must examine signalized and unsignalized intersections that fall into at 
least one of the following categories: 
 
Project driveways 
 
Intersections at either end of the block on which the project is located or up to 500 feet 
from the primary project driveways, whichever is farther 
 
Intersection of collector or higher classified streets where the project adds 100 or more 
peak hour trips 
The study should also examine any other locations necessary as determined by City staff. 
3.2. 
DATA COLLECTION AND STUDY PERIODS 
Traffic counts should be collected and included in the Appendix.  Available existing counts can be 
used if they are less than 18 months old and the traffic volumes have not been significantly changed 
due to more recent development in the vicinity. The City may allow the use of older data or 
alternative data collection sources due to atypical conditions that may be causing a substantial 
disruption of traffic patterns or volumes such as long‐term roadway construction or closures, severe 
disruptions of economic, employment activity and  widespread mandated closures of public and 
private institutions. The City Engineer or the designee shall approve all requests to use other 
available traffic counts.  
Common rules for conducting traffic counts include but are not limited to:  
 Peak hour turning movement volumes shall be conducted on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, or 
Thursdays during weeks not containing a holiday. Counts shall be conducted in favorable 
weather conditions.

--- page 28 ---
16 
 Counts shall be collected when schools and colleges are in session, but not during the first 
two weeks that the schools and colleges are in session. Counts collected when schools and 
colleges are not in session shall be approved by the City Engineer, including a methodology 
for adding historical school traffic volumes into the analysis.  
 Two‐hour peak period vehicular, bicycle, and pedestrian volumes should be collected for all 
study intersections for the weekday AM (7:00 ‐ 9:00 AM) and PM (4:00 ‐ 6:00 PM) periods, 
or unless otherwise specified (such as midday or weekend peak periods). Weekday AM and 
PM peak hour LOS analysis should be conducted for all study intersections for all scenarios.  
 One 24‐hour count should be collected on the main road adjacent to the project site. This 
count is useful for understanding the 24‐hour count profile, and can also be used to assist 
with manual adjustments. 
During the scoping process, City staff may require additional peak hours for analyses and periods 
for traffic counts due to a project’s unique traffic patterns (such a school or an event center). 
3.3. 
STUDY SCENARIOS 
Intersection levels of service should be analyzed for the following scenarios: 
 
Existing Conditions 
 
Opening Year Conditions 
 
Opening Year Plus Project Conditions (project‐generated traffic added to Opening Year 
volumes) 
 
Cumulative Conditions (typically 20 to 25 years in the future or based on the cumulative 
travel demand model, but should be determined in consultation with City staff) 
 
Cumulative Plus Project Conditions (project‐generated traffic added to existing traffic 
volumes) 
3.4. 
FUTURE TRAFFIC VOLUME FORECASTING METHODOLOGY 
Once the cumulative analysis year has been established in coordination with City staff, opening year 
and cumulative year traffic volumes should be developed. Future volumes should be forecast and 
interpolated or extrapolated based on outputs from the base year and future year versions of the 
City of San Mateo travel demand model. Volumes should be interpolated for study intersections not 
included in the model.  
City staff must approve alternative methods to develop future volumes such as general growth 
rates. 
3.5. 
TRIP GENERATION  
Trip generation should be based on one or more of the following:

--- page 29 ---
17 
 Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation Manual (most current edition), or 
recognized trip rates from professional organizations such as the Urban Land Institute.  
o Rates should be calculated using the average weight or weighted average formula 
when applicable 
o Special consideration should be given for ITE rates based on old data or a small 
sample and may require additional data collection to determine the appropriate trip 
generation  
 New rates should be generated using community examples for uses not updated or included 
in the ITE Trip Generation Manual.  
 Mixed‐use trip reductions are allowed but must follow methods from approved sources 
such as ITE or NCHRP. 
 Pass‐by trip reductions must be justified from approved sources. 
 All trip reductions may be capped by the City Engineer.   
 All assumptions shall have proper citation and justification for their use in the local 
transportation analysis and must be approved by the City Engineer.  
Projected daily and, AM and PM peak hour trips for the proposed project shall be summarized in 
the table.  Trip generation rates, factors and source should be provided. The totals for the inbound 
and outbound trips shall be provided in the table.  
3.6. 
TRIP DISTRIBUTION  
Trip distribution should be developed, and project trips assigned to the study intersections using 
either existing travel patterns and relative locations of complementary land uses, or a City of San 
Mateo travel demand model select zone run (in consultation with City staff). 
A figure illustrating the percentage of peak hour traffic going to and from various destinations along 
the transportation network shall be provided. A figure illustrating peak hour project only trips at the 
driveways, study intersections and roadway segments shall be provided based on the trip 
distribution.  
3.7. 
OPERATIONS ANALYSIS METHODOLOGY 
Existing, Existing Plus Project, Opening Year, Opening Year Plus Project, Cumulative, and Cumulative 
plus project intersection levels of service must be evaluated for all study intersections using the 
most recent edition of the Highway Capacity Manual (HCM) methodology.  
3.8. 
LEVEL OF SERVICE STANDARDS 
Level of service (LOS) is a standard performance measurement to describe the operating 
characteristics of a street system in terms of the level of congestion or delay experienced by 
motorists. Service levels range from A through F, which relate to traffic conditions from least

--- page 30 ---
18 
congested, (free‐flowing conditions) to most congested (total breakdown with stop‐and‐go 
operations). The relationship between level of service and delay are described in the HCM.  
3.8.1. Signalized Intersections 
The performance standard for intersections in San Mateo is to maintain a Level of Service no worse 
than mid LOS D, average delay of 45.0 seconds, as the acceptable Level of Service for all signalized 
intersections within the City. The local transportation analysis should note intersections that 
perform unacceptably under no project and/or plus project conditions, and necessary 
improvements that can be applied to increase performance to acceptable levels per Policy C2.1 of 
the City’s Circulation Element. 
For study intersections, an adverse traffic operations issue is identified if the addition of the traffic 
generated from the proposed project results in any one of the following:  
 Triggers an intersection operating at acceptable LOS to operate at unacceptable levels of 
service 
 Increases the average delay for a study intersection that is already operating at 
unacceptable LOS by 4.0 seconds or more.  
3.8.2. Unsignalized Intersections 
Unsignalized intersections should maintain a Level of Service no worse than LOS E.  For unsignalized 
study intersections, an adverse traffic operations issue is identified if the addition of the traffic 
generated from the proposed project results in any one of the following:  
 Triggers an intersection operating at acceptable LOS to operate at unacceptable levels of 
service (from E or better to F). 
 Increases the average delay for an unsignalized  study intersection that is already operating 
at unacceptable LOS by 4.0 seconds or more. 
Unsignalized intersections may include all way stop, or two way stop controlled. The delay for 
unsignalized intersections should be computed as follows:  
 All way stop controlled – use average delay 
 Two way stop controlled – use worst approach delay 
Improvements to unsignalized intersections may include a change of traffic control, including yield 
control, traffic circle/roundabout, or a traffic signal.  The CA MUTCD states that if one or more of 
the criteria for signal warrants is met, an engineering study is required to evaluate other factors to 
determine if an intersection must be signalized. When analyzed, the peak hour and 8‐hour traffic 
signal warrants should be used to determine if a traffic signal is required to improve the adverse 
effects identified at an unsignalized intersection. Additionally, if a project is near a school or a 
downtown area with substantial pedestrian activity then City may require additional warrants to be

--- page 31 ---
19 
evaluated such as pedestrian, accident history, etc. The City reserves the right to determine if a 
warranted signal will be installed.  
3.9. 
OTHER ANALYSIS REQUIREMENTS 
In addition to LOS, the local transportation assessment must include the following analyses: 
 
Site Access and On‐Site Circulation: Review site access and on‐site circulation for vehicles, 
bicyclists, and pedestrians and identify any issues that should be improved. 
 
Driveway Site Distance: Analyze driveway sight distance for all signalized and unsignalized 
driveways and identify any deficiencies. 
 
Parking: Identify and compare the project’s proposed parking supply, parking requirements, 
and expected peak parking demand (based on ITE parking rates). For mixed‐use projects, 
examine the feasibility of shared parking. The bicycle parking supply will also be compared 
to code requirements (if applicable). 
 
Vehicle Queuing: Examine outbound vehicle queuing at project driveways and note any on‐
site deficiencies or conflicts with circulation. Also examine the adequacy of turn pocket 
storage length at off‐site study intersections based on 95th percentile queues. 
 
Pedestrian Issues: Examine potential effects to pedestrian safety and accessibility for all 
existing and planned sidewalks, crosswalks, and other pedestrian facilities adjacent to the 
project site, within a quarter mile of the project site, or connecting to transit stops or 
stations in the vicinity of the project site. Per General Plan Policy C4.5 and C4.6 of the City’s 
General Plan Circulation Element, the City requires as a condition of development project 
approval the provision of sidewalks and wheelchair ramps where lacking and the repair or 
replacement of damaged sidewalks.  
 
Bicyclist Issues: Examine potential effects to bicyclist safety and accessibility for all existing 
and planned bikeways and other bicycle facilities (including roadways) adjacent to the 
project site, within a quarter mile of the project site, or connecting to transit stops or 
stations in the vicinity of the project site. 
 
Transit Issues: Examine potential operational effects to transit routes and facilities and 
potential effects to transit user safety and accessibility for all existing and planned transit 
stops or stations adjacent to the project site or within a quarter mile of the project site.  
 
Hazards and Emergency Vehicle Access: Examine potential effects to safety/hazards and 
emergency vehicle access on‐site and around the project site. 
 
Neighborhood traffic: If a project has direct access, or is located adjacent to a 
neighborhood street, a residential assessment should be conducted. Per General Plan Policy 
C1.3, the impact of new development on local streets must be minimized. A neighborhood 
traffic assessment must be conducted by estimating the number of project trips expected to 
travel on the neighborhood street segment on a daily basis and during the peak hour. 
Considerations will be based on roadway capacity, traffic speeds, presence of pedestrians, 
sidewalks, surrounding land use, among other factors. Project applicants will work with city

--- page 32 ---
20 
staff to determine whether traffic calming measures are necessary to reduce any adverse 
effects. The project applicant should generally expect to follow the neighborhood outreach 
efforts defined in the City’s Neighborhood Traffic Management Program (NTMP) where 
traffic calming measures are proposed.    
The project applicant should conduct any additional analysis that is deemed necessary by City staff, 
to be determined through a scoping meeting. This could include passenger loading demand 
analyses, freight loading demand analysis, and truck turning templates. 
3.10. FAIR SHARE 
In the City of San Mateo, transportation improvements are funded through direct project 
improvements and via contributions to development impact fee programs. 
When adverse conditions are identified and off‐site improvements are needed, the City of San 
Mateo as the lead agency may elect to collect a fair share contribution to construct necessary 
improvements. The fair share is one of the factors that are normally used by local agencies to 
estimate fees for covering the costs of constructing improvements. Identification and timing of 
needed improvements are determined by the local jurisdiction and are based on several factors, 
such as actual traffic volumes, specific site conditions and geometries, accident history, and 
community and engineering preferences. 
Per the General Plan, sometimes the revenues derived from the fee offset only a small portion of 
the total costs of roadway improvements, and will be used primarily to pay for the less substantial 
mitigations.  The percentage varies depending on the improvement.  To make up the deficit, a 
development project may be required to pay the full cost of off‐site traffic improvements through 
the environmental assessment process, in addition to paying the impact fee, with a possible 
provision for reimbursement by the City. 
3.11. CROSS‐JURISDICTIONAL ANALYSIS 
If a project will affect another jurisdiction, such as Caltrans, C/CAG, County of San Mateo, or 
adjacent cities, coordination with that jurisdiction may be required. City of San Mateo staff can 
provide guidance and contact information for other jurisdictions.   
3.12. ANALYSIS DISCUSSION  
The local transportation analysis should discuss conclusions regarding the transportation issues 
caused by the proposed project on the roadway system. If the traffic generated by this and other 
projects requires improvement  measures that are not covered by current impact fees, then the 
project’s fair share percentage shall be calculated using peak‐hour volumes and provided in the 
local transportation analysis.

--- page 33 ---
21 
For all recommendations to increase the number of travel lanes on a street or at an intersection as 
an improvement measure, the report must clearly identify the adverse effects associated with such 
a change such as whether or not additional right of way will be required and whether it is feasible 
to acquire the right of way based on the level of development of the adjacent land and buildings (if 
any). All improvements  should be reviewed in the field to make sure that they can be 
accommodated. If they cannot be accommodated or are not feasible, those findings need to be 
included in the local transportation analysis.  
Any proposed roadway widening would need a review of the VMT impacts for transportation 
projects, as described above in the VMT Impact Thresholds. Any proposed improvements in 
response to local transportation analysis that results in increased capacity must undergo a detailed 
VMT analysis. 
The local transportation analysis should discuss other possible adverse issues on traffic. Examples of 
these are: (1) the limited visibility of access points on curved roadways; (2) the need for pavement 
widening to provide left‐turn and right‐turn lanes at access points into the proposed project; (3) the 
effect of increased traffic volumes on local residential streets; and (4) the need for road realignment 
to improve sight distance.  
Projects which propose to amend the City’s General Plan Land Use and substantially increase 
potential traffic generation must provide an analysis of the project at  current planned land use 
versus proposed land use in the build out condition for the project area, including future cumulative 
conditions. The purpose of such analysis is to provide decision makers with the understanding of 
the planned circulation networks ability to accommodate additional traffic generation caused by 
the proposed General Plan Land Use amendments.

--- page 34 ---
Attachment A: High Quality Transit Area Map

--- page 35 ---
ð
ð
ð
ð
ð
ß/
101
∙þ
82
∙þ
35
∙þ
92
§¨¦
280
Burlingame
Station
San Mateo
Station
Hayward Park
Station
Hillsdale
Station
Belmont
Station
H:\24\24441 - City of San Mateo Transportation On-Call\GIS\High Quality Transit Areas.mxd   Date: 6/12/2020
Figure 2
High-Quality Transit Areas
City of San Mateo, CA
[
0
3,900Feet
ð
Caltrain Stations
High-Quality Transit Area
City Boundary
High-quality transit areas are within 
1/2 mile of an existing major transit 
stop or an existing stop along a high-
qualiity transit corridor

--- page 36 ---
Attachment B: VMT Screening Maps

--- page 37 ---
ß/
101
∙þ
82
∙þ
35
∙þ
92
§¨¦
280
13.9
13.8
20
14.5
14.2
16.9
13.4
14.3
18.1
14.1
14.1
12
13.5
12.2
19.8
16.2
16.7
15.9
13.1
19.9
13.4
16.9
11.3
21.5
0.3
12.7
17
17.2
13
16.9
17.4
11.6
16.6
15.2
12.4
15.6
17.2
18.3
13.8
14.6
13
12.5
12.8
12.8
17.6
12.2
15.7
15.3
17.5
14.3
14.8
15
14.2
16.5
23.3
19.7
13.8
14.1
17.2
19
0.3
11.7
17.6
15.6
18.8
12.2
16.4
11.5
10.6
16.1
17.7
13.9
18.8
17.9
14.1
15.3
15.5
11
7.2
17.9
18.3
14.5
18.3
20
15.1
16.1
14.6
15.7
7
15.9
0.1
14.7
18.7
16.6
14.4
17.3
19.5
13.1
12.7
15.5
16.8
15.5
19.1
13
15.1
13.6
17.5
14.6
16.9
18.5
20.2
21
15.4
14.3
15.5
11.8
15.6
13.6
15.7
16.5
15.2
5.6
14.8
13.8
17.3
20.1
20
14.8
13.2
17.6
14.9
15.5
17.7
17.9
17.6
18.9
17.8
14.9
16.2
15.6
13.8
17.4
17.9
14
13.4
19.5
16.3
18.5
15.7
16.7
13.7
23.9
15.7
17.9
22.5
15.1
16.6
0.1
14.2
20.9
18.7
14.3
14.4
0.1
16.9
13.5
20.1
18.6
15.7
15.9
16.9
14.5
18.4
15.3
17.4
11.5
16.9
15.6
15.7
16.7
14.3
14.6
15.8
13.4
13.1
12.9
13.8
13.6
9.4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
H:\24\24441 - City of San Mateo Transportation On-Call\GIS\TAZ Households_Screening.mxd   Date: 6/12/2020
Average VMT per Capita by TAZ
VMT per Capita Labeled
City of San Mateo, CA
[
0
3,900Feet
Average VMT/ Capita by TAZ
< 13.1 - Below Target VMT (County
Average - 15%)
13.1 - 15.5 - Target VMT (County
Average- 15%) to County Average
> 15.5 - Above County Average
No Data
City Boundary
High Quality Transit Area
Priority Development Area
*Average VMT per Capita by TAZ for San Mateo County is 15.5

--- page 38 ---
ß/
101
∙þ
82
∙þ
35
∙þ
92
§¨¦
280
3040
3061
3071
3130
2980
3002
3009
1957
3022
3102
3027
3076
3117
3041
3017
2977
3086
3079
3144
3116
1540
1613
1974
3065
3140
3093
1962
3023
2964
3084
1981
3134
3150
1961
3021
2971
2975
3139
3059
3047
3129
1983
3055
1976
2967
2985
3074
3037
3066
2988
3124
3029
1985
2981
1538
2978
2968
3132
3020
1979
3075
1547
3003
3043
3100
3114
2974
2983
3098
3015
2961
3030
2990
2979
1977
2995
3064
3097
3136
3039
3008
3122
3092
3073
3034
3051
1960
3067
2986
3087
3014
3154
3108
3125
2991
3105
3126
3142
3121
2984
1965
3128
3137
1956
3070
1611
3058
1546
3133
3138
2976
3081
3082
2963
3005
3080
3028
2987
3025
3155
1536
1542
3094
2989
3052
3077
1959
3006
1539
3088
3036
1537
3024
3053
2970
3019
3033
3011
3123
1544
3157
1990
3054
3110
2996
3083
3101
3068
3031
3049
3153
2973
3035
1550
1953
3013
1978
3149
3106
3007
3090
1545
3012
3095
3000
3156
3026
3089
3091
3118
3032
3038
1610
3063
3050
1554
3131
3085
3099
1984
1955
2997
3056
1963
3135
2965
1958
1980
1991
2982
1548
2992
3044
3152
3069
1982
3010
3112
3115
3078
3072
3057
3148
3018
2993
2999
3001
2960
3045
3147
3145
3127
1549
2966
3151
3120
3119
3141
3143
3146
1964
2994
3060
3062
3046
3042
3048
3107
3109
3103
3104
3113
3111
3004
3016
2001
2003
1561
2006
2005
1600
1621
1564
1523
2969
2998
1646
1524
2962
2972
H:\24\24441 - City of San Mateo Transportation On-Call\GIS\TAZ Households_Screening_Labeled.mxd   Date: 6/12/2020
Average VMT per Capita by TAZ
TAZ Number Labeled
City of San Mateo, CA
[
0
3,900Feet
Average VMT/ Capita by TAZ
< 13.1 - Below Target VMT (County
Average - 15%)
13.1 - 15.5 - Target VMT (County
Average- 15%) to County Average
> 15.5 - Above County Average
No Data
City Boundary
High Quality Transit Area
Priority Development Area
*Average VMT per Capita by TAZ for San Mateo County is 15.5

--- page 39 ---
ß/
101
∙þ
82
∙þ
35
∙þ
92
§¨¦
280
14.8
14.4
13.7
25
15.5
30.7
16.1
16.3
27.3
19.3
17.4
14.4
35.1
16.5
16.5
15.6
28
16
16.4
14.7
24.5
18.3
18.3
14.1
15.1
31.9
25.9
25
26.2
20.6
32
24
26.5
17.8
24.1
36
14.9
20.2
16
30.5
26.8
25.2
15.7
17.8
26.3
13.3
31.2
14.9
21.1
29.2
28.8
27.7
50.6
25.2
25.8
15.9
23.7
24.2
17.6
13.7
29.6
15.3
30.5
26.3
23.5
24.6
24.7
26.8
24.8
30.3
21.2
15.7
15.2
15.8
19
14.6
27.7
18.1
15
17.1
30.9
29
12.9
17.3
19.6
28.3
14.1
15.6
18.9
27.8
24.1
26.6
16.9
19.4
15.9
15
32.3
35.6
27.5
14.4
26.8
17.9
14.8
24.6
17.3
47.9
24.7
28.2
24.9
15.6
15.8
17.4
16
17.1
33.8
16.2
19.3
26.7
28.8
29.8
16.2
15.1
15.3
17.8
15.4
24.5
18.6
30.5
25.7
16.6
15.2
17.9
26.3
28.1
16.8
20.1
32.3
28
16.3
28.5
15.6
25.3
13.7
16.4
17.2
25.3
21.4
22.2
27.5
26.9
16.7
24.8
26.4
25
27.6
27.2
15.6
22.9
25.2
46.3
27.6
15.8
16
16.5
17.9
28.1
15.5
39.2
19
24.2
15.4
16.9
28.6
25.9
29.5
27.7
17.1
19.5
26.8
17.8
30.7
15.2
26
16.1
16
23.7
15.1
34.6
29
15.3
18.6
14.8
14.2
26.1
14.8
17.4
16.4
28.2
32
17.5
26.7
16.3
15.5
17.9
27.5
23.7
29.8
15.3
15
15.1
31.5
16
16.1
14.7
13.7
27.9
15.2
28.4
25.9
15.5
18.6
15.2
15.3
15.6
15.5
16.4
16.4
10.9
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
H:\24\24441 - City of San Mateo Transportation On-Call\GIS\TAZ Employees_Screening.mxd   Date: 6/12/2020
Average VMT per Employee by TAZ
VMT per Employee Labeled
City of San Mateo, CA
[
0
3,900 Feet
Average VMT/ Employee by TAZ
< 15.3 - Below Target VMT (County
Average - 15%)
15.3 - 18.0 - Target VMT (County Average-
15%) to County Average
> 18.0 - Above County Average
No Data
City Boundary
High Quality Transit Area
Priority Development Area
*Average VMT per Employee by TAZ for San Mateo County is 18.0

--- page 40 ---
ß/
101
∙þ
82
∙þ
35
∙þ
92
§¨¦
280
3040
3061
3071
3130
2980
3002
3009
1957
3022
3102
3027
3076
3117
3041
3017
2977
3086
3079
3144
3116
1540
1613
1974
3065
3140
3093
1962
3023
2964
3084
1981
3134
3150
1961
3021
2971
2975
3139
3059
3047
3129
1983
3055
1976
2967
2985
3074
3037
3066
2988
3124
3029
1985
2981
1538
2978
2968
3132
3020
1979
3075
1547
3003
3043
3100
3114
2974
2983
3098
3015
2961
3030
2990
2979
1977
2995
3064
3097
3136
3039
3008
3122
3092
3073
3034
3051
1960
3067
2986
3087
3014
3154
3108
3125
2991
3105
3126
3142
3121
2984
1965
3128
3137
1956
3070
1611
3058
1546
3133
3138
2976
3081
3082
2963
3005
3080
3028
2987
3025
3155
1536
1542
3094
2989
3052
3077
1959
3006
1539
3088
3036
1537
3024
3053
2970
3019
3033
3011
3123
1544
3157
1990
3054
3110
2996
3083
3101
3068
3031
3049
3153
2973
3035
1550
1953
3013
1978
3149
3106
3007
3090
1545
3012
3095
3000
3156
3026
3089
3091
3118
3032
3038
1610
3063
3050
1554
3131
3085
3099
1984
1955
2997
3056
1963
3135
2965
1958
1980
1991
2982
1548
2992
3044
3152
3069
1982
3010
3112
3115
3078
3072
3057
3148
3018
2993
2999
3001
2960
3045
3147
3145
3127
1549
2966
3151
3120
3119
3141
3143
3146
1964
2994
3060
3062
3046
3042
3048
3107
3109
3103
3104
3113
3111
3004
3016
2001
2003
1561
2006
2005
1600
1621
1564
1523
2969
2998
1646
1524
2962
2972
H:\24\24441 - City of San Mateo Transportation On-Call\GIS\TAZ Employees_Screening_Labeled.mxd   Date: 6/12/2020
Average VMT per Employee by TAZ
TAZ Number Labeled
City of San Mateo, CA
[
0
3,900Feet
Average VMT/ Employee by TAZ
< 15.3 - Below Target VMT (County
Average - 15%)
15.3 - 18.0 - Target VMT (County
Average- 15%) to County Average
> 18.0 - Above County Average
No Data
City Boundary
High Quality Transit Area
Priority Development Area
*Average VMT per Employee by TAZ for San Mateo County is 18.0

--- page 41 ---
Attachment C: Transportation Projects That Generally Do Not 
Increase VMT

--- page 42 ---
2 
 
 
Rehabilitation, maintenance, replacement, safety, and repair projects designed to improve 
the condition of existing transportation assets (e.g., highways; roadways; bridges; culverts; 
Transportation Management System field elements such as cameras, message signs, 
detection, or signals; tunnels; transit systems; and assets that serve bicycle and pedestrian 
facilities) and that do not add additional motor vehicle capacity  
 
 
Roadside safety devices or hardware installation such as median barriers and guardrails  
 
 
Roadway shoulder enhancements to provide “breakdown space,” dedicated space for use 
only by transit vehicles, to provide bicycle access, or to otherwise improve safety, but which 
will not be used as automobile vehicle travel lanes 
 
 
Addition of an auxiliary lane of less than one mile in length designed to improve roadway 
safety  
 
 
Installation, removal, or reconfiguration of traffic lanes that are not for through traffic, such 
as left, right, and U-turn pockets, two-way left turn lanes, or emergency breakdown lanes 
that are not utilized as through lanes  
 
 
Addition of roadway capacity on local or collector streets provided the project also 
substantially improves conditions for pedestrians, cyclists, and, if applicable, transit  
 
 
Conversion of existing general purpose lanes (including ramps) to managed lanes or transit 
lanes, or changing lane management in a manner that would not substantially increase 
vehicle travel  
 
 
Addition of a new lane that is permanently restricted to use only by transit vehicles  
 
 
Reduction in number of through lanes  
 
 
Grade separation to separate vehicles from rail, transit, pedestrians or bicycles, or to 
replace a lane in order to separate preferential vehicles (e.g., HOV, HOT, or trucks) from 
general vehicles

--- page 43 ---
3 
 
Installation, removal, or reconfiguration of traffic control devices, including Transit Signal 
Priority (TSP) features  
 
 
Installation of traffic metering systems, detection systems, cameras, changeable message 
signs and other electronics designed to optimize vehicle, bicycle, or pedestrian flow  
 
 
Timing of signals to optimize vehicle, bicycle, or pedestrian flow  
 
 
Installation of roundabouts or traffic circles  
 
 
Installation or reconfiguration of traffic calming devices  
 
 
Adoption of or increase in tolls  
 
 
Addition of tolled lanes, where tolls are sufficient to mitigate VMT increase  
 
 
Initiation of new transit service  
 
 
Conversion of streets from one-way to two-way operation with no net increase in number 
of traffic lanes  
 
 
Removal or relocation of off-street or on-street parking spaces  
 
 
Adoption or modification of on-street parking or loading restrictions (including meters, time 
limits, accessible spaces, and preferential/reserved parking permit programs)  
 
 
Addition of traffic wayfinding signage  
 
 
Rehabilitation and maintenance projects that do not add motor vehicle capacity  
 
 
Addition of new or enhanced bike or pedestrian facilities on existing streets/highways or 
within existing public rights-of-way

--- page 44 ---
4 
 
Addition of Class I bike paths, trails, multi-use paths, or other off-road facilities that serve 
non-motorized travel  
 
 
Installation of publicly available alternative fuel/charging infrastructure  
 
 
Addition of passing lanes, truck climbing lanes, or truck brake-check lanes in rural areas that 
do not increase overall vehicle capacity along the corridor

--- page 45 ---
Circulation 
III-12 
Adopted by City Council on October 18, 2010, Resolution No. 134-2010 
Amended by the City Council on April 18, 2011, Resolution No. 42 (2011) 
Amended by the City Council on April 16, 2012, Resolution No. 56 (2012) 
Amended by the City Council on April 6, 2015, Resolution No. 36 (2015) 
 
 
 
E. Roadway Improvements 
 
BACKGROUND 
 
The planned roadway improvements needed to reduce existing traffic problems and to accommodate 
the development anticipated by the General Plan are discussed in detail in the City’s Traffic 
Mitigation Report prepared by Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc. 
 
Target Level of Service 
 
The anticipated growth planned for by the General Plan would result in substantial degradation of 
traffic conditions at several intersections, if not mitigated. The intent of the Traffic Mitigation 
Report is threefold: to solve existing congestion problems, to maintain existing traffic conditions 
where they are good, particularly on residential streets, and to reduce the impacts of anticipated 
growth. 
 
Only feasible traffic improvements are included in the Report. Determination of "feasibility" 
involved a number of factors: physical constraints (i.e., right-of-way need versus availability), cost 
(including construction and right-of-way), and net benefit (the additional roadway capacity gained 
versus cost, loss of on-street parking, and the impact on neighbors). 
 
GOALS AND POLICIES 
 
GOAL 2: 
Maintain a street and highway system which accommodates future growth while 
maintaining acceptable levels of service. 
 
POLICIES 
 
C 2.1: 
Acceptable Levels of Service. Maintain a Level of Service no worse than mid LOS 
D, average delay of 45.0 seconds, as the acceptable Level of Service for all 
intersections within the City. 
 
C 2.2: 
Traffic Improvement Master Plan. Maintain a master plan for street system 
improvements necessary to accommodate future growth and maintain acceptable 
levels of service. Intended improvements within the time frame of the Plan are listed 
in Appendix D, and may be updated by Resolution of the City Council consistent 
with Policy C-2.1. 
 
C 2.3: 
Roadway Improvement Implementation. Enact fiscal policies to provide that the 
roadway improvements listed in Appendix D are funded and accomplished 
throughout the timeframe of the General Plan to achieve the Level of Service 
standards set forth in Policy C-2.1 
 
A peak hour Level of Service mid-D, average delay of 45 seconds, is the desirable "worst case" 
Level of Service for intersections. This is generally considered acceptable for peak period

--- page 46 ---
Circulation Element 
III-13 
Adopted by the City Council on October 18, 2010, Resolution No. 134-2010 
Amended by the City Council on April 18, 2011, Resolution No. 42 (2011) 
Amended by the City Council on April 16, 2012, Resolution No. 56 (2012) 
Amended by the City Council on April 6, 2015, Resolution No. 36 (2015) 
 
 
 
operations under urban traffic conditions such as those in San Mateo. It represents "tolerable" delay 
in which a motorist would expect to typically wait through one and possibly a maximum of two 
signal cycles. 
 
The Traffic Mitigation Report prepared by Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc. summarizes 
the anticipated street system improvements that would occur within the time horizon of the General 
Plan. There are only limited opportunities for new roadway facilities in the heavily built-up areas of 
San Mateo. In most cases, the assumed intersection improvement  would result in an average delay 
of 45 seconds or better; however, in some cases a situation worse than the desirable target Level of 
Service is expected due to physical constraints making full mitigation infeasible. In these areas, a 
combination of techniques should be employed to minimize further traffic congestion, including 
constraining the permitted scale of development in the vicinity of the congestion problem and 
requiring the implementation of a Transportation Demand Management Program as a condition of 
development project approval. 
 
It is intended by the General Plan that all the roadway improvements listed in Appendix D be 
implemented within the timeframe of the Plan, with the possible exception of improvements 
indicated as needing further study. 
 
C 2.4: 
Transportation Fee Ordinance. Require new developments to pay for on-site 
improvements to meet the needs of development and their proportionate share of the 
costs for mitigating cumulative traffic impacts within the City of San Mateo. Utilize 
a Transportation Fee Ordinance to finance necessary off-site improvements 
equitably. The off-site improvements will include intersection and street 
improvements to maintain intersection levels of service, traffic safety improvements 
and improvements to reduce single occupant vehicle trips such as bicycle system 
enhancements, pedestrian improvements, and trip reduction measures. 
 
It is clear that future development in San Mateo will cause added burden on the transportation 
system. The revenue generated by a traffic impact fee will offset the cost of roadway improvements 
which are needed as a result of this development. San Mateo has adopted an Impact Fee Ordinance 
which establishes a per unit fee amount on new commercial and residential development. This fee 
structure and amount is derived from the Land Use Plan and the related road improvements needed 
to achieve an "acceptable" Level of Service established by the Plan. The fee reflects only the 
incremental increase in demand placed on the circulation system by new development projects and 
is not imposed retroactively on existing land uses. 
 
The revenues derived from the fee offset only a small portion of the total costs of roadway 
improvements, and will be used primarily to pay for the less substantial mitigations. The percentage 
varies depending on the improvement, please see Table 2-1 in the Traffic Mitigation Report 
(Appendix D), which shows actual percentages. To make up the deficit, a development project may 
be required to pay the full cost of off-site traffic improvements through the environmental 
assessment process, in addition to paying the impact fee, with a possible provision for 
reimbursement by the City.

--- page 47 ---
Circulation 
III-14 
Adopted by City Council on October 18, 2010, Resolution No. 134-2010 
Amended by the City Council on April 18, 2011, Resolution No. 42 (2011) 
Amended by the City Council on April 16, 2012, Resolution No. 56 (2012) 
Amended by the City Council on April 6, 2015, Resolution No. 36 (2015) 
 
 
 
C 2.5: 
Traffic Studies. Require site-specific traffic studies for development projects where 
there may be a substantial impact effect on the local street system. Traffic impacts 
effects caused by a development project are considered to be unacceptable and 
warrant mitigation if the addition of project traffic results in a cumulative intersection 
level of service exceeding the acceptable level established in Policy C-2.1; where 
there may be safety hazards created; or where there may be other substantial impacts 
effects on the circulation system. 
 
The traffic model does not identify all site specific impactseffects. To ensure that adequate traffic 
capacity is maintained and project related impacts are identified a traffic impact study is required of 
all public and private development projects for which an environmental assessment is prepared and 
where there is the potential for traffic impact. This study should include a traffic flow analysis to 
determine trip generation and the distribution and assignment of traffic resulting from the proposed 
project. A development project may be denied or the project may be required to be revised based on 
the degree of traffic impacts effects created relative to the acceptable Level of Service established 
by Policy C-2.1, resultant circulation hazards, or other substantial impacts effects on the circulation 
system. 
 
C 2.6: 
Prioritization and Timing of Roadway Improvements. Roadway improvements 
shall be periodically prioritized to be correlated with the distribution and pace of 
development, and to reflect the degree of need for mitigation. 
 
C 2.7: 
Exceeding the Acceptable Level of Service. In addition to paying the transportation 
impact fee, a development project may be required to fund off-site circulation 
improvements which are needed as a result of project generated traffic, if: 
 
a. 
The level of service at the intersection drops below mid-level LOS D (average 
delay of more than 45 seconds) when the project traffic is added, and 
 
b. 
An intersection that operates below its level of service standard under the 
base year conditions experiences an increase in delay of four or more 
seconds, and 
 
c. 
The needed improvement of the intersection(s) is not funded in the applicable 
five-year City Capital Improvement Program from the date of application 
approval. 
 
The cost of the off-site improvements may be reimbursed by the City if a reimbursement program 
is established throughout the timeframe of the Traffic Mitigation Report or at the time when the 
improvement was initially scheduled. 
 
Roadway improvements will be prioritized by the City Public Works Department and phased over 
the timeframe of the General Plan based on the degree of need and availability of funds. It

--- page 48 ---
Circulation Element 
III-15 
Adopted by the City Council on October 18, 2010, Resolution No. 134-2010 
Amended by the City Council on April 18, 2011, Resolution No. 42 (2011) 
Amended by the City Council on April 16, 2012, Resolution No. 56 (2012) 
Amended by the City Council on April 6, 2015, Resolution No. 36 (2015) 
 
 
 
is intended that the Traffic Mitigation Report be periodically reviewed and updated to reflect 
changes in growth projections and traffic conditions. 
 
Situations may arise where the traffic of a proposed development project would result in an 
intersection Level of Service in excess of what is determined to be acceptable, and the improvement 
of the intersection is not scheduled for years to come. If the impact effect is significantsubstantial, 
the City may require the development project to wait until the roadway improvements are made or 
require the developer to pay the cost of needed off-site improvements with a provision for City 
reimbursement throughout the timeframe of the Plan or at the time when the improvement was 
initially scheduled. 
 
C 2.8: 
Traffic Signal Installation. A development project may be required to fund 
signalization of off-site unsignalized intersections if warranted as a result of project 
generated traffic. In addition, existing conditions may warrant signalization of 
unsignalized intersections. A warrant analysis to determine the need for signalization 
shall include consideration of both existing and projected traffic and pedestrian 
volumes, traffic delays and interruptions, accident history, and proximity of sensitive 
land uses, such as schools. 
 
The installation of properly located traffic signals will provide for the orderly movement of traffic, 
increase the capacity of the intersection, reduce frequency of accidents, can allow for continuous 
movement along a given route, and permit minor street traffic to enter and cross major streets in a 
safe and continuous manner. Improper or unwarranted signal installation may cause excessive delay, 
increased accident frequency, circuitous travel along alternate routes and disobedience of signal 
indications. 
 
The need for traffic signals will be measured by acceptable traffic engineering standards, such as 
the Federal Highway Administration Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for traffic signal 
standards. Where appropriate traffic signal warrants are met, the City may require installation of a 
traffic signal after consideration of impacts effects on surrounding land uses and the need for 
coordination with other existing and planned intersection improvements. 
 
C 2.9: 
Dedication of Needed Right-of-Way for Roadway Improvements. Require 
dedication of needed rights-of-way for roadway improvements shown in Appendix 
D, which are deficient in land area. Dedication shall be required where the 
development project contributes to the need for the roadway improvement and where 
the cost of dedication is not so disproportionate to the size of the project or traffic 
generated to make it unreasonable. 
 
In some cases, adequate public right-of-way is not available to accomplish necessary roadway 
improvements. The City will need to purchase right-of-way or require its dedication as a condition 
of development project approval. Dedication is required where a development project creates the 
need for the roadway improvement and where the required mitigation is reasonable (i.e., where the 
severance impact on the property is not excessive to the degree that it is greater than the benefit to 
the street system).

--- page 49 ---
Circulation 
III-16 
Adopted by City Council on October 18, 2010, Resolution No. 134-2010 
Amended by the City Council on April 18, 2011, Resolution No. 42 (2011) 
Amended by the City Council on April 16, 2012, Resolution No. 56 (2012) 
Amended by the City Council on April 6, 2015, Resolution No. 36 (2015) 
 
 
 
C 2.10: 
Transportation Demand Management (TDM). Participate in the TDM  Program 
as outlined by the San Mateo City/County Association of Governments (C/CAG). 
Encourage TDM measures as a condition of approval for development projects, 
which are anticipated to cause substantial traffic impactseffects. C/CAG requires the 
preparation of a TDM program for all new development that would add 100 peak 
hour trips or more to the regional road network. 
 
To minimize traffic congestion, a comprehensive program is needed that provides mitigation to 
solve traffic problems. The City of San Mateo, which is almost built-out, offers limited opportunities 
for physical improvements on the roadway network. In cases where it is impractical or prohibitively 
expensive to increase the physical capacity of the street, the demand on the roadway system must 
be reduced. 
 
The Transportation Demand Management (TDM) program involves measures designed to change 
travel behavior so that the number of vehicles on the roadway system during peak traffic periods is 
reduced. The program provides a basis for crediting project trips based on specific trip reduction 
measures for a variety of land uses such as retail, office, and residential. TDM programs can involve 
a number of measures, including: Ridesharing, Work Pattern Changes, Transit and Bicycle Use, 
Shuttles, Telecommuting, and Preferential Parking Controls. TDM measures for residential 
development also may include development of schools and/or community facilities in new 
subdivisions, creation of housing within one-quarter mile of rail stations, and transportation kiosks. 
 
C 2.11: 
Transportation Demand Management (TDM) in Rail Corridor Transit- 
Oriented Development Plan (Corridor Plan). Establish and implement a TDM 
program consistent with the Corridor Plan policy and program requirements for 
development within Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) areas designated by the 
Corridor Plan, as well as for all properties within the Hillsdale Station Area Plan. 
 
C 2.12: 
Transportation Demand Management (TDM) in Downtown. Establish and 
implement a TDM program, a Transportation Management Association (TMA), and 
other measures to reduce vehicle trips and encourage transit use and promote bicycle 
and pedestrian accessibility for development within one-half mile of the Downtown 
transit center.

--- page 50 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
PLANNING COMMISSION 
RESOLUTION NO. 2020-Click or tap here to enter text. 
RECOMMEND APPROVAL OF A GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT TO REVISE THE CIRCULATION ELEMENT TO 
PROVIDE THAT LEVEL OF SERVICE STANDARDS WILL BE USED TO DETERMINE NEED FOR TRAFFIC 
IMPROVEMENT EXACTIONS IN ADDITION TO PAYMENT OF TRANSPORTATION IMPACT FEE 
WHEREAS, for purposes of analyzing the environmental impacts of new development in accordance with 
the California Environmental Quality Act, as of July 1, 2020, California cities are required to estimate 
transportation impacts by using vehicle miles traveled analysis instead of level of service standards; and 
WHEREAS, this requirement is explained in CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.3; and 
WHEREAS, the City’s Circulation Element of its General Plan currently refers to significant 
impacts under CEQA in connection with determining the transportation effects of new development 
and the need for traffic improvement exactions; and 
WHEREAS, independent of its CEQA analysis, the City wishes to continue to use level of service 
standards to determine off-site transportation improvements necessitated by new development; and 
WHEREAS, the City wishes to revise its Circulation Element to provide that necessary off-site 
transportation improvements will be required if the City’s level of service standards are exceeded; and 
WHEREAS, adoption of the resolution recommending City Council adoption of the General Plan 
Amendments to the Circulation Element is not a project subject to CEQA in that it can be seen with certainty 
that there is no possibility that the amendments will cause a significant impact to the environment. The purpose 
of the General Plan amendments is to allow the City to continue the use of Level of Service standards to impose 
ad hoc exactions; 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA RESOLVES 
THAT: 
1. 
The Planning Commission has held a public hearing for the amendment of the General Plan 
Circulation Element in accordance with Government Code Section 65350 et. seq. 
2. 
The Planning Commission recommends to the City Council, by at least a majority of its members, 
the following: 
a. Adoption of the Amendment to the City of San Mateo General Plan which is attached as Exhibit 
A to this Resolution. 
RESOLUTION NO. __ (2020) adopted by the Planning Commission of the City of San Mateo, California, at a 
regular meeting held on June 23, 2020, by the following vote of the Planning Commission:

--- page 51 ---
AYES: 
NOES: 
ABSENT:  
 
______________________________________ 
City of San Mateo Planning Commission 
 
Exhibits: 
A. Amendments to the City of San Mateo General Plan Circulation Element

--- page 52 ---
Exhibit A 
 
1. 
The third paragraph of Policy C 2.4, “Transportation Fee Ordinance,” of the Circulation 
Element is amended to read:   “The revenues derived from the fee offset only a small 
portion of the total costs of roadway improvements, and will be used primarily to pay for 
the less substantial mitigations. The percentage varies depending on the improvement, 
please see Table 2-1 in the Traffic Mitigation Report (Appendix D), which shows actual 
percentages. To make up the deficit, a development project may be required to pay the 
full cost of off-site traffic improvements in addition to paying the impact fee, with a 
possible provision for reimbursement by the City.” 
2. 
Policy 2.5, “Traffic Studies,” of the Circulation Element is amended to read:  “Require site-
specific traffic studies for development projects where there may be a substantial impact 
on the local street system. Traffic impacts caused by a development project are 
considered to be unacceptable and warrant exactions beyond payment of the City’s 
impact fee if the addition of project traffic results in a cumulative intersection level of 
service exceeding the acceptable level established in Policy C-2.1; where there may be 
safety hazards created; or where there may be other substantial effects on the circulation 
system. 
The traffic model does not identify all site specific effects. To ensure that adequate traffic 
capacity is maintained and project related effects are identified, a traffic impact study is 
required of all public and private development projects for which an environmental 
assessment is prepared and where there is the potential for traffic effects. This study 
should include a traffic flow analysis to determine trip generation and the distribution and 
assignment of traffic resulting from the proposed project. A development project may be 
denied or the project may be required to be revised based on the degree of traffic effects 
created relative to the acceptable Level of Service established by Policy C-2.1, resultant 
circulation hazards, or other substantial impacts on the circulation system.” 
The fourth paragraph of Policy C 2.7, “Exceeding the Acceptable Level of Service,” of the 
Circulation Element is amended to read: “Situations may arise where the traffic of a 
proposed development project would result in an intersection Level of Service in excess of 
what is determined to be acceptable, and the improvement of the intersection is not 
scheduled for years to come. If the effect is significant, the City may require the 
development project to wait until the roadway improvements are made or require the 
developer to pay the cost of needed off-site improvements with a provision for City 
reimbursement throughout the timeframe of the Plan or at the time when the 
improvement was initially scheduled.” 
3. 
The third paragraph of Policy C 2.8, “Traffic Signal Installation,” of the Circulation Element 
is amended to read:  “The need for traffic signals will be measured by acceptable traffic

--- page 53 ---
engineering standards, such as the Federal Highway Administration Manual on Uniform 
Traffic Control Devices for traffic signal standards.  Where appropriate traffic signal 
warrants are met, the City may require installation of a traffic signal after consideration of 
effects on surrounding land uses and the need for coordination with other existing and 
planned intersection improvements.” 
4. 
The first paragraph of Policy 2.10, “Transportation Demand Management (TDM),” of the 
Circulation Element is amended to read:  “Participate in the TDM Program as outlined by 
the San Mateo City/County Association of Governments (C/CAG).  Encourage TDM 
measures as a condition of approval for development projects, which are anticipated to 
cause substantial traffic effects.  C/CAG requires the preparation of a TDM program for all 
new development that would add 100 peak hour trips or more to the regional road 
network.

--- page 54 ---
MEMORANDUM  
 
Date: 
June 15, 2020 
Project #24441 
To: 
City of San Mateo 
From: 
Damian Stefanakis, Fernando Sotelo, Claire Casey, Kittelson & Associates 
Project: 
City of San Mateo VMT Implementation 
Subject: 
Considerations for Implementing Screening Criteria 
 
This memorandum provides guidance and recommendations to the City of San Mateo for adopting 
screening criteria as part of the process to implement vehicle miles travelled (VMT) metrics as required 
under Senate Bill (SB) 743.  Screening criteria would allow the city as a lead agency to conclude that a 
land use project may not result in significant impacts under CEQA, and therefore would not require a 
detailed VMT analysis. 
Figure 1 presents a flow chart depicting how a land use project would be analyzed under VMT-based 
metrics. Figure 2 presents key decision points for conducting an analysis using screening criteria. The 
order for screening shown in Figure 2 is arbitrary; if a project answers yes to any criteria in the figure, it 
screens out (regardless of whether it answers yes or no to the other criteria).  
The California Office of Planning and Research (OPR) Technical Advisory on Evaluating Transportation 
Impacts in CEQA1 (Technical Advisory) provides guidance and recommendations for lead agencies to 
screen out projects which may not warrant VMT analysis under CEQA. It should be noted that the 
guidance provided in OPR’s technical advisory was prepared to provide advice and recommendations for 
agencies to use at their discretion and are not requirements under SB 743.  Under CEQA, a lead agency 
has the authority to determine its own significance thresholds and methodologies for technical analysis, 
taking into account its own development patterns, policy goals and context.  Lead agencies can make 
their own specific decisions regarding methodology and thresholds, presuming their choices are 
supported by substantial evidence2. The assumptions used by OPR to support its screening criteria 
recommendations below may not be appropriate for the City of San Mateo, therefore considerations 
specific to the City of San Mateo are also provided in this memorandum. 
 
 
1 California Office of Planning and Research, “Technical Advisory on Evaluating Transportation Impacts in CEQA”., 
December 2018. 
2 Per CEQA Guidelines Section 15384, substantial evidence means enough relevant information and reasonable 
inferences that a fair argument can be made to support a conclusion, even though other conclusions might also be 
reached. Substantial evidence shall include facts, reasonable assumptions predicated upon facts, and expert opinion 
supported by facts.

--- page 55 ---
H:\24\24441 - City of San Mateo Transportation On-Call\design\Exhibits\Flow_chart_figs.dwg      Jun 15, 2020 - 8:23pm -  ccasey      Layout Tab: Layout1
Land Use Projects VMT Analysis Flow Chart
San Mateo, CA
1
June 2020
Figure

--- page 56 ---
H:\24\24441 - City of San Mateo Transportation On-Call\design\Exhibits\Flow_chart_figs.dwg      Jun 15, 2020 - 8:26pm -  ccasey      Layout Tab: Layout1 (2)
Land Use Projects Screening Criteria Flow Chart
San Mateo, CA
2
June 2020
Figure

--- page 57 ---
City of San Mateo VMT Implementation 
Project #24441 
June 15, 2020 
Page 4 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
 
Oakland, California 
SCREENING CRITERIA 
The following summarizes OPR’s recommendations for screening criteria in the Technical Advisory and 
considerations developed specifically for the City of San Mateo. A project should be screened out of 
requiring a detailed VMT analysis if it meets certain criteria in at least one of the following categories:  
• 
Location in a High-Quality Transit Area (HQTA) 
• 
Projects within low VMT areas 
• 
Small projects 
• 
Local-serving retail 
• 
Provision of affordable housing 
Location in a High-Quality Transit Area (HQTA) 
OPR Recommendation 
High-Quality Transit Areas (HQTAs) are areas located within 1/2 mile of an existing major transit stop3 or 
an existing stop along a high-quality transit corridor4 CEQA Guideline Section 15064.3, subdivision (b)(1), 
states that lead agencies should generally presume that certain projects (including residential, retail and 
office projects, including mixed use) proposed within a HQTA will have a less than significant impact on 
VMT and thus not warrant further CEQA analysis. However, OPR states in the Technical Advisory that this 
presumption might not be appropriate if the project:  
 
• 
has a floor area ratio (FAR) of less than 0.75; 
• 
includes more parking for use by residents, customers, or employees of the project than 
required by the jurisdiction (if the jurisdiction requires the project to supply parking); 
• 
is inconsistent with the applicable Sustainable Communities Strategy (SCS), as determined by the 
lead agency, with input from the Metropolitan Planning Organization; or 
• 
replaces affordable residential units with a smaller number of moderate- or high-income 
residential units. 
 
California Public Resources Code Section 21155 provides guidance for projects that are not entirely within 
a HQTA. A project shall be considered to be within one-half mile of a major transit stop or high-quality 
transit corridor if all parcels within the project have at least 75 percent of their area within one-half mile 
 
3 Per Public Resources Code, § 21064.3 (“‘Major transit stop’ means a site containing an existing rail transit station, a 
ferry terminal served by either a bus or rail transit service, or the intersection of two or more major bus routes with a 
frequency of service interval of 15 minutes or less during the morning and afternoon peak commute periods.”). 
4 Per Public Resources Code, § 21155, a high-quality transit corridor means a corridor with fixed route bus service with 
service intervals no longer than 15 minutes during peak commute hours.

--- page 58 ---
City of San Mateo VMT Implementation 
Project #24441 
June 15, 2020 
Page 5 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
 
Oakland, California 
from the stop or corridor and if not more than 10 percent of the residential units or 100 units (whichever 
is lower) in the project are farther than one-half mile from the stop or corridor. 
Considerations for the City of San Mateo 
The City should assume that a project located in a high-quality transit area would have a less-than-
significant transportation impact since projects would be expected to generate lower rates of vehicle 
trips, provided it meets other criteria consistent with OPR’s recommendations (FAR, parking supply, 
consistency with SCS, and housing affordability). 
Attachment A highlights current high-quality transit areas in the city, based on transit service as of May 
2020. As shown in the map, high-quality transit areas in the city currently consist of the half-mile areas 
around Caltrain stations. There are three stations in the City (Hillsdale, San Mateo, and Hayward Park). 
Additionally, the Burlingame station is north of the city boundary, but the half-mile area around the 
station partially extends into northern San Mateo. As of May 2020, the Hillsdale Station is temporarily 
closed as part of the 25th Ave Grade Separation Project. This station is still included as high-quality transit 
area due to its expected re-opening in Winter 2020.  
Until recently, segments along El Camino Real met the conditions to qualify them as a high-quality transit 
corridor due to bus lines along the road. However, due to service changes because of the Coronavirus 
(COVID-19) pandemic, these routes’ headways are now insufficient to qualify as high-quality transit as of 
May 2020. This is considered temporary and all indications are that normal service will resume in the fall. 
There are no other areas anticipated to become high quality transit corridors in the C/CAG or Bay Area 
Regional Transportation Plans. The City should regularly monitor transit service changes in the city and 
RTPs and update the high-quality transit map annually or as needed. 
Projects within Low VMT Areas 
OPR Recommendation 
Residential and office (or other land use) projects that are located in areas characterized by low VMT, 
and that incorporate similar features to existing development in the area (i.e., density, mix of uses, transit 
accessibility), will tend to exhibit similarly low VMT below the relevant impact threshold and thus would 
not warrant further CEQA analysis.  
Considerations for the City of San Mateo 
As an alternative to calculating VMT individually for each new development project, the City of San Mateo 
can develop a map-based screening approach which compares the VMT for each travel demand model 
transportation analysis zone (TAZ) to the citywide or regional averages that have been selected as VMT 
impact thresholds. Screening maps may be provided for residential and employment-related projects 
such as offices. In addition to residential and office projects, the City may consider expanding the list of 
non-residential land uses that can take advantage of this screening procedure such as hotels, light 
industrial, research and development, and certain institutional uses.

--- page 59 ---
City of San Mateo VMT Implementation 
Project #24441 
June 15, 2020 
Page 6 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
 
Oakland, California 
Consistent with OPR, San Mateo may incorporate guidance and screening maps in its traffic impact 
guidelines to allow land use development projects to be exempted from a detailed VMT study using VMT 
screening maps. Screening maps can show where a project would be expected to generate VMT that is 
below the relevant impact threshold and could be screened out of a detailed study. Sample VMT maps 
for the City of San Mateo are provided and discussed in Attachment B.  
Small Projects 
OPR Recommendation 
OPR’s technical advisory states that small projects could be presumed to have less-than-significant 
impacts and can be screened out of requiring a detailed VMT analysis. According to the advisory, absent 
substantial evidence indicating that a project would generate a potentially significant level of VMT, or 
inconsistency with an SCS or general plan, projects that generate or attract fewer than 110 vehicle trips 
per day generally may be assumed to cause a less-than-significant transportation impact. OPR’s 110 daily 
trips threshold is based on a trip generation calculation that would be allowed for a project under a CEQA 
categorial exemption.  
Considerations for the City of San Mateo 
The City may allow a presumption of less-than-significant impacts for projects with daily trip generation 
below a daily number of trips or below a combination of land use and intensity (e.g. 15 single family 
homes, 20,000 square feet of office, etc.). The City may adjust this criterion to better reflect local 
conditions. For example, the City of Los Angeles’s adopted guidelines exempts projects that generate less 
than 250 daily trips, and  the City of Fresno draft guidelines exempts projects that generate less than 500 
daily trips from the requirement to provide a detailed VMT analysis. A criterion should be based on 
substantial evidence that it would not result in a substantial impact. For example, the City may allow a 
higher threshold in terms of dwelling units or development area if it can demonstrate a high non-
vehicular mode share, or internalization due to mixed uses. Substantial evidence may be provided by 
determining a number of daily trips would not substantially result in GHG emissions that would exceed 
the applicable criteria set by the Bay Area Air Quality Management District. Due to citizen concern 
regarding traffic congestion in the City, Kittelson recommends maintaining the OPR thresholds for small 
projects, as follows in Table 1. 
Table 1: Thresholds for Small Projects 
Land Use Type 
Number of Units/ Square Feet 
Corresponding Daily Trips 
Single Family Residential 
10 Dwelling Units 
110 
Multi-Family Residential 
11 Dwelling Units 
104 
Office 
11 TSF1 
107 
Light Industrial 
22 TSF1 
109 
Note: 1. TSF refers to thousand square feet.

--- page 60 ---
City of San Mateo VMT Implementation 
Project #24441 
June 15, 2020 
Page 7 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
 
Oakland, California 
Local-Serving Retail 
OPR Recommendation 
Depending on the location and amount of nearby residential and retail land uses, new retail development 
may redistribute and even shorten existing shopping trips rather than creating new trips. Estimating the 
total net change in VMT is the best way to analyze a retail project’s transportation impacts. New local-
serving retail development in areas that may be underserved by retail and may be predominately 
residential tends to shorten trips and reduce total VMT. Therefore, OPR recommends presuming that 
local-serving retail (as opposed to regional retail) would not result in an increase in overall VMT and 
therefore would not result in a VMT impact. Absent local data, OPR defines local-serving retail as 50,000 
square feet or less. 
Considerations for the City of San Mateo 
To recognize local-serving retail’s potential to reduce overall VMT, the City should allow a presumption 
of less-than-significant impacts for smaller retail projects (including similar commercial uses such as 
restaurants). Lead agencies may refer to local definitions based on substantial evidence to support the 
definition of local-service retail to justify that these developments that may result in an overall reduction 
in VMT. The City could consider relying on a market study or relevant information to provide substantial 
evidence5 that a retail project under a certain square footage would primarily serve a local population 
and result in an overall reduction in VMT. Lacking data from a supporting market study, it would be 
appropriate for the City to remain consistent with OPR in assuming local-serving retail of 50,000 square 
feet or less would not have an impact. The relevant square footage threshold should apply to the entirety 
of a retail project; for a mixed-use project, this screening criteria should be applied to the retail/ 
commercial component separately to determine if that portion of the project screens out of a detailed 
VMT analysis.  
Affordable Housing 
OPR Recommendation 
OPR’s Technical Advisory indicates that adding affordable housing to infill locations generally improves 
the jobs-housing match, which has an effect in shortening commutes and therefore reducing VMT. 
Affordable housing also typically generates less VMT than market-rate housing. Given that affordable 
housing in infill locations generally improves an area’s jobs-housing balance and generates less VMT than 
market-rate housing, OPR recommends assuming a less-than-significant impact for a residential 
development with 100 percent affordable housing in infill locations. For mixed use projects, the 
affordable residential portion may be screened out of needing a detailed VMT analysis. However, 
 
5 Substantial evidence is defined per CEQA code 15384, see Attachment C.

--- page 61 ---
City of San Mateo VMT Implementation 
Project #24441 
June 15, 2020 
Page 8 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
 
Oakland, California 
jurisdictions could develop their own applicable percentage based on local data and conditions, providing 
substantial evidence to support that these projects would not result in a substantial increase in VMT.  
Considerations for the City of San Mateo 
The City of San Mateo may include a provision that residential projects with 100 percent deed restricted 
affordable housing should be presumed to have a less-than-significant transportation impact, since low-
income housing generally generates lower VMT than market-rate housing. The City may consider 
requiring that such projects be located in a High-Quality Transit Area or in parts of the city that have been 
identified by the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC), Association of Bay Area Governments 
(ABAG), and the City as Priority Development Areas (PDA’s), which are mapped in Attachment B. The 
City’s General Plan states that these are areas “along transportation corridors which are served by public 
transit that allow opportunities for transit-oriented, infill development within existing communities6.” 
Given the nature of affordable housing (such as residents with lower incomes and lower vehicle 
ownership), locating affordable housing in these locations can ensure the necessary supportive 
transportation infrastructure and mix of land uses exist. Note that if a project contains less than 100 
percent affordable housing, the portion that is affordable should be screened out of needing a detailed 
VMT analysis.   
Consistency with RTP/SCS 
 
A Regional Transportation Plan/Sustainable Communities Strategy (RTP/SCS) is associated with a set of 
land use and infrastructure assumptions that are based on a vision for the region under long range 
conditions. Section 15125, subdivision (d), of the CEQA Guidelines provides that lead agencies should 
analyze impacts resulting from inconsistencies with regional plans, including regional transportation 
plans. For example, a development may be inconsistent with an RTP/SCS if the development is outside 
the footprint of development or within an area specified as open space as shown in the SCS. If a proposed 
project is inconsistent with the RTP/SCS, the lead agency should evaluate whether that inconsistency 
may result in a significant impact on transportation. Therefore, projects that are inconsistent with the 
RTP/SCS would not qualify for screening out of a detailed VMT analysis. A project of the scale that would 
be inconsistent with an RTP/SCS would likely require its own in-depth transportation analysis regardless. 
NEXT STEPS 
Following the City’s review of these considerations, Kittelson will assist the City in implementing the 
recommended screening criteria based on OPR’s Technical Advisory recommendations or modifying the 
 
6 Existing Conditions Report: Land Use, Public Review Draft. October 9, 2018. URL: http://strivesanmateo.org/wp-
content/uploads/2018/10/LandUse_PublicReview-1.pdf

--- page 62 ---
City of San Mateo VMT Implementation 
Project #24441 
June 15, 2020 
Page 9 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
 
Oakland, California 
criteria for the City based on substantial evidence. These decisions will serve as a base to develop the 
new transportation analysis guidelines based on VMT metrics.  
 
Attachments:  
• 
Attachment A: High Quality Transit Area Map 
• 
Attachment B: VMT Screening Maps 
• 
Attachment C: Key Definitions and CEQA Terminology

--- page 63 ---
Attachment A: High Quality Transit Area Map

--- page 64 ---
ð
ð
ð
ð
ð
ß/
101
∙
þ
82
∙
þ
35
∙
þ
92
§¨¦
280
Burlingame
Station
San Mateo
Station
Hayward Park
Station
Hillsdale
Station
Belmont
Station
H:\24\24441 - City of San Mateo Transportation On-Call\GIS\High Quality Transit Areas.mxd   Date: 6/12/2020
Figure 2
High-Quality Transit Areas
City of San Mateo, CA
[
0
3,900Feet
ð
Caltrain Stations
High-Quality Transit Area
City Boundary
High-quality transit areas are within 
1/2 mile of an existing major transit 
stop or an existing stop along a high-
qualiity transit corridor

--- page 65 ---
Attachment B: VMT Screening Maps

--- page 66 ---
ß/
101
∙
þ
82
∙
þ
35
∙
þ
92
§¨¦
280
13.9
13.8
20
14.5
14.2
16.9
13.4
14.3
18.1
14.1
14.1
12
13.5
12.2
19.8
16.2
16.7
15.9
13.1
19.9
13.4
16.9
11.3
21.5
0.3
12.7
17
17.2
13
16.9
17.4
11.6
16.6
15.2
12.4
15.6
17.2
18.3
13.8
14.6
13
12.5
12.8
12.8
17.6
12.2
15.7
15.3
17.5
14.3
14.8
15
14.2
16.5
23.3
19.7
13.8
14.1
17.2
19
0.3
11.7
17.6
15.6
18.8
12.2
16.4
11.5
10.6
16.1
17.7
13.9
18.8
17.9
14.1
15.3
15.5
11
7.2
17.9
18.3
14.5
18.3
20
15.1
16.1
14.6
15.7
7
15.9
0.1
14.7
18.7
16.6
14.4
17.3
19.5
13.1
12.7
15.5
16.8
15.5
19.1
13
15.1
13.6
17.5
14.6
16.9
18.5
20.2
21
15.4
14.3
15.5
11.8
15.6
13.6
15.7
16.5
15.2
5.6
14.8
13.8
17.3
20.1
20
14.8
13.2
17.6
14.9
15.5
17.7
17.9
17.6
18.9
17.8
14.9
16.2
15.6
13.8
17.4
17.9
14
13.4
19.5
16.3
18.5
15.7
16.7
13.7
23.9
15.7
17.9
22.5
15.1
16.6
0.1
14.2
20.9
18.7
14.3
14.4
0.1
16.9
13.5
20.1
18.6
15.7
15.9
16.9
14.5
18.4
15.3
17.4
11.5
16.9
15.6
15.7
16.7
14.3
14.6
15.8
13.4
13.1
12.9
13.8
13.6
9.4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
H:\24\24441 - City of San Mateo Transportation On-Call\GIS\TAZ Households_Screening.mxd   Date: 6/12/2020
Average VMT per Capita by TAZ
VMT per Capita Labeled
City of San Mateo, CA
[
0
3,900Feet
Average VMT/ Capita by TAZ
< 13.1 - Below Target VMT (County
Average - 15%)
13.1 - 15.5 - Target VMT (County
Average- 15%) to County Average
> 15.5 - Above County Average
No Data
City Boundary
High Quality Transit Area
Priority Development Area
*Average VMT per Capita by TAZ for San Mateo County is 15.5

--- page 67 ---
ß/
101
∙
þ
82
∙
þ
35
∙
þ
92
§¨¦
280
3040
3061
3071
3130
2980
3002
3009
1957
3022
3102
3027
3076
3117
3041
3017
2977
3086
3079
3144
3116
1540
1613
1974
3065
3140
3093
1962
3023
2964
3084
1981
3134
3150
1961
3021
2971
2975
3139
3059
3047
3129
1983
3055
1976
2967
2985
3074
3037
3066
2988
3124
3029
1985
2981
1538
2978
2968
3132
3020
1979
3075
1547
3003
3043
3100
3114
2974
2983
3098
3015
2961
3030
2990
2979
1977
2995
3064
3097
3136
3039
3008
3122
3092
3073
3034
3051
1960
3067
2986
3087
3014
3154
3108
3125
2991
3105
3126
3142
3121
2984
1965
3128
3137
1956
3070
1611
3058
1546
3133
3138
2976
3081
3082
2963
3005
3080
3028
2987
3025
3155
1536
1542
3094
2989
3052
3077
1959
3006
1539
3088
3036
1537
3024
3053
2970
3019
3033
3011
3123
1544
3157
1990
3054
3110
2996
3083
3101
3068
3031
3049
3153
2973
3035
1550
1953
3013
1978
3149
3106
3007
3090
1545
3012
3095
3000
3156
3026
3089
3091
3118
3032
3038
1610
3063
3050
1554
3131
3085
3099
1984
1955
2997
3056
1963
3135
2965
1958
1980
1991
2982
1548
2992
3044
3152
3069
1982
3010
3112
3115
3078
3072
3057
3148
3018
2993
2999
3001
2960
3045
3147
3145
3127
1549
2966
3151
3120
3119
3141
3143
3146
1964
2994
3060
3062
3046
3042
3048
3107
3109
3103
3104
3113
3111
3004
3016
2001
2003
1561
2006
2005
1600
1621
1564
1523
2969
2998
1646
1524
2962
2972
H:\24\24441 - City of San Mateo Transportation On-Call\GIS\TAZ Households_Screening_Labeled.mxd   Date: 6/12/2020
Average VMT per Capita by TAZ
TAZ Number Labeled
City of San Mateo, CA
[
0
3,900Feet
Average VMT/ Capita by TAZ
< 13.1 - Below Target VMT (County
Average - 15%)
13.1 - 15.5 - Target VMT (County
Average- 15%) to County Average
> 15.5 - Above County Average
No Data
City Boundary
High Quality Transit Area
Priority Development Area
*Average VMT per Capita by TAZ for San Mateo County is 15.5

--- page 68 ---
ß/
101
∙
þ
82
∙
þ
35
∙
þ
92
§¨¦
280
14.8
14.4
13.7
25
15.5
30.7
16.1
16.3
27.3
19.3
17.4
14.4
35.1
16.5
16.5
15.6
28
16
16.4
14.7
24.5
18.3
18.3
14.1
15.1
31.9
25.9
25
26.2
20.6
32
24
26.5
17.8
24.1
36
14.9
20.2
16
30.5
26.8
25.2
15.7
17.8
26.3
13.3
31.2
14.9
21.1
29.2
28.8
27.7
50.6
25.2
25.8
15.9
23.7
24.2
17.6
13.7
29.6
15.3
30.5
26.3
23.5
24.6
24.7
26.8
24.8
30.3
21.2
15.7
15.2
15.8
19
14.6
27.7
18.1
15
17.1
30.9
29
12.9
17.3
19.6
28.3
14.1
15.6
18.9
27.8
24.1
26.6
16.9
19.4
15.9
15
32.3
35.6
27.5
14.4
26.8
17.9
14.8
24.6
17.3
47.9
24.7
28.2
24.9
15.6
15.8
17.4
16
17.1
33.8
16.2
19.3
26.7
28.8
29.8
16.2
15.1
15.3
17.8
15.4
24.5
18.6
30.5
25.7
16.6
15.2
17.9
26.3
28.1
16.8
20.1
32.3
28
16.3
28.5
15.6
25.3
13.7
16.4
17.2
25.3
21.4
22.2
27.5
26.9
16.7
24.8
26.4
25
27.6
27.2
15.6
22.9
25.2
46.3
27.6
15.8
16
16.5
17.9
28.1
15.5
39.2
19
24.2
15.4
16.9
28.6
25.9
29.5
27.7
17.1
19.5
26.8
17.8
30.7
15.2
26
16.1
16
23.7
15.1
34.6
29
15.3
18.6
14.8
14.2
26.1
14.8
17.4
16.4
28.2
32
17.5
26.7
16.3
15.5
17.9
27.5
23.7
29.8
15.3
15
15.1
31.5
16
16.1
14.7
13.7
27.9
15.2
28.4
25.9
15.5
18.6
15.2
15.3
15.6
15.5
16.4
16.4
10.9
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
H:\24\24441 - City of San Mateo Transportation On-Call\GIS\TAZ Employees_Screening.mxd   Date: 6/12/2020
Average VMT per Employee by TAZ
VMT per Employee Labeled
City of San Mateo, CA
[
0
3,900 Feet
Average VMT/ Employee by TAZ
< 15.3 - Below Target VMT (County
Average - 15%)
15.3 - 18.0 - Target VMT (County Average-
15%) to County Average
> 18.0 - Above County Average
No Data
City Boundary
High Quality Transit Area
Priority Development Area
*Average VMT per Employee by TAZ for San Mateo County is 18.0

--- page 69 ---
ß/
101
∙
þ
82
∙
þ
35
∙
þ
92
§¨¦
280
3040
3061
3071
3130
2980
3002
3009
1957
3022
3102
3027
3076
3117
3041
3017
2977
3086
3079
3144
3116
1540
1613
1974
3065
3140
3093
1962
3023
2964
3084
1981
3134
3150
1961
3021
2971
2975
3139
3059
3047
3129
1983
3055
1976
2967
2985
3074
3037
3066
2988
3124
3029
1985
2981
1538
2978
2968
3132
3020
1979
3075
1547
3003
3043
3100
3114
2974
2983
3098
3015
2961
3030
2990
2979
1977
2995
3064
3097
3136
3039
3008
3122
3092
3073
3034
3051
1960
3067
2986
3087
3014
3154
3108
3125
2991
3105
3126
3142
3121
2984
1965
3128
3137
1956
3070
1611
3058
1546
3133
3138
2976
3081
3082
2963
3005
3080
3028
2987
3025
3155
1536
1542
3094
2989
3052
3077
1959
3006
1539
3088
3036
1537
3024
3053
2970
3019
3033
3011
3123
1544
3157
1990
3054
3110
2996
3083
3101
3068
3031
3049
3153
2973
3035
1550
1953
3013
1978
3149
3106
3007
3090
1545
3012
3095
3000
3156
3026
3089
3091
3118
3032
3038
1610
3063
3050
1554
3131
3085
3099
1984
1955
2997
3056
1963
3135
2965
1958
1980
1991
2982
1548
2992
3044
3152
3069
1982
3010
3112
3115
3078
3072
3057
3148
3018
2993
2999
3001
2960
3045
3147
3145
3127
1549
2966
3151
3120
3119
3141
3143
3146
1964
2994
3060
3062
3046
3042
3048
3107
3109
3103
3104
3113
3111
3004
3016
2001
2003
1561
2006
2005
1600
1621
1564
1523
2969
2998
1646
1524
2962
2972
H:\24\24441 - City of San Mateo Transportation On-Call\GIS\TAZ Employees_Screening_Labeled.mxd   Date: 6/12/2020
Average VMT per Employee by TAZ
TAZ Number Labeled
City of San Mateo, CA
[
0
3,900Feet
Average VMT/ Employee by TAZ
< 15.3 - Below Target VMT (County
Average - 15%)
15.3 - 18.0 - Target VMT (County
Average- 15%) to County Average
> 18.0 - Above County Average
No Data
City Boundary
High Quality Transit Area
Priority Development Area
*Average VMT per Employee by TAZ for San Mateo County is 18.0

--- page 70 ---
Attachment C: Key Definitions and CEQA Terminology

--- page 71 ---
ATTACHMENT C 
 
 
CEQA Guidelines Appendix G, Environmental Checklist Form Sample Questions 
 
XVII. TRANSPORTATION 
 
 
a) 
Would the project conflict with a program, plan, ordinance or policy addressing the circulation system, including 
transit, roadway, bicycle and pedestrian facilities? 
 
b) 
Would the project conflict or be inconsistent with CEQA Guidelines § 15064.3, subdivision (b)? 
 
c) 
Substantially increase hazards due to a geometric design feature (e.g., sharp curves or dangerous intersections) or 
incompatible uses (e.g., farm equipment). 
 
d) 
Result in inadequate emergency access?

--- page 72 ---
CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS. TITLE 14, NATURAL RESOURCES 
DIVISION 6, RESOURCES AGENCY 
CHAPTER 3: GUIDELINES FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CALIFORNIA 
ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT 
 
 
SECTION 15064.3. DETERMINING THE SIGNIFICANCE OF TRANSPORTATION IMPACTS 
 
(a) 
Purpose 
 
This section describes specific considerations for evaluating a project’s transportation impacts. 
Generally, vehicle miles traveled is the most appropriate measure of transportation impacts. For 
the purposes of this section, “vehicle miles traveled” refers to the amount and distance of 
automobile travel attributable to a project. Other relevant considerations may include the 
effects of the project on transit and non-motorized travel. Except as provided in subdivision 
(b)(2) below (regarding roadway capacity), a project’s effect on automobile delay shall not 
constitute a significant environmental impact. 
 
(b) Criteria for Analyzing Transportation Impacts. 
 
(1) Land Use Projects. Vehicle miles traveled exceeding an applicable threshold of 
significance may indicate a significant impact. Generally, projects within one-half mile of 
either an existing major transit stop or a stop along an existing high quality transit corridor 
should be presumed to cause a less than significant transportation impact. Projects that 
decrease vehicle miles traveled in the project area compared to existing conditions should 
be presumed to have a less than significant transportation impact. 
 
(2) Transportation Projects. Transportation projects that reduce, or have no impact on, vehicle 
miles traveled should be presumed to cause a less than significant transportation impact. 
For roadway capacity projects, agencies have discretion to determine the appropriate 
measure of transportation impact consistent with CEQA and other applicable requirements. 
To the extent that such impacts have already been adequately addressed at a programmatic 
level, such as in a regional transportation plan EIR, a lead agency may tier from that 
analysis as provided in Section 15152. 
 
(3) Qualitative Analysis. If existing models or methods are not available to estimate the vehicle 
miles traveled for the particular project being considered, a lead agency may analyze the 
project’s vehicle miles traveled qualitatively. Such a qualitative analysis would evaluate 
factors such as the availability of transit, proximity to other destinations, etc. For many 
projects, a qualitative analysis of construction traffic may be appropriate. 
 
(4) Methodology. A lead agency has discretion to choose the most appropriate methodology to 
evaluate a project’s vehicle miles traveled, including whether to express the change in 
absolute terms, per capita, per household or in any other measure. A lead agency may use 
models to estimate a project’s vehicle miles traveled, and may revise those estimates to 
reflect professional judgment based on substantial evidence. Any assumptions used to 
estimate vehicle miles traveled and any revisions to model outputs should be documented 
and explained in the environmental document prepared for the project. The standard of 
adequacy in Section 15151 shall apply to the analysis described in this section. 
(c)Applicability.  
 
The provisions of this section shall apply prospectively as described in section 
15007. A lead agency may elect to be governed by the provisions of this section immediately. 
Beginning on July 1, 2020, the provisions of this section shall apply statewide. 
Note: Authority cited: Sections 21083 and 21099, Public Resources Code. Reference: Sections 
21099 and 21100, Public Resources Code; Cleveland National Forest Foundation v. San Diego 
Association of Governments (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 413; Ukiah Citizens for Safety First v. City of 
Ukiah (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 256; California Clean Energy Committee v. City of Woodland 
(2014) 225 Cal. App. 4th 173.

--- page 73 ---
15382. SIGNIFICANT EFFECT ON THE ENVIRONMENT 
“Significant effect on the environment” means a substantial, or potentially substantial, adverse 
change in any of the physical conditions within the area affected by the project, including land, air, 
water, minerals, flora, fauna, ambient noise, and objects of historic or aesthetic significance. An 
economic or social change by itself shall not be considered a significant effect on the environment. 
A social or economic change related to a physical change may be considered in determining 
whether the physical change is significant. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 21083, Public Resources Code; Reference: Sections 21068, 21083, 
21100, and 21151, Public Resources Code; Hecton v. People of the State of California, 58 Cal. 
App. 3d 653. 
 
15064. DETERMINING THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS CAUSED 
BY A PROJECT 
(a) Determining whether a project may have a significant effect plays a critical role in the CEQA 
process. 
(1) If there is substantial evidence, in light of the whole record before a lead agency, that a 
project may have a significant effect on the environment, the agency shall prepare a draft 
EIR. 
(2) When a final EIR identifies one or more significant effects, the Lead Agency and each 
Responsible Agency shall make a finding under Section 15091 for each significant effect 
and may need to make a statement of overriding considerations under Section 15093 for the 
project. 
(b) (1) The determination of whether a project may have a significant effect on the environment 
calls for careful judgment on the part of the public agency involved, based to the extent 
possible on scientific and factual data. An ironclad definition of significant effect is not 
always possible because the significance of an activity may vary with the setting. For 
example, an activity which may not be significant in an urban area may be significant in a 
rural area. 
(2) Thresholds of significance, as defined in Section 15064.7(a), may assist lead agencies in 
determining whether a project may cause a significant impact. When using a threshold, the 
lead agency should briefly explain how compliance with the threshold means that the 
project's impacts are less than significant. Compliance with the threshold does not relieve a 
lead agency of the obligation to consider substantial evidence indicating that the project’s 
environmental effects may still be significant. 
(c) In determining whether an effect will be adverse or beneficial, the Lead Agency shall consider 
the views held by members of the public in all areas affected as expressed in the whole record 
before the lead agency. Before requiring the preparation of an EIR, the Lead Agency must still 
determine whether environmental change itself might be substantial. 
(d) In evaluating the significance of the environmental effect of a project, the Lead Agency shall 
consider direct physical changes in the environment which may be caused by the project and 
reasonably foreseeable indirect physical changes in the environment which may be caused by 
the project. 
(1) A direct physical change in the environment is a physical change in the environment which 
is caused by and immediately related to the project. Examples of direct physical changes in the environment are the dust, noise, 
and traffic of heavy equipment that would result from 
construction of a sewage treatment plant and possible odors from operation of the plant. 
(2) An indirect physical change in the environment is a physical change in the environment 
which is not immediately related to the project, but which is caused indirectly by the 
project. If a direct physical change in the environment in turn causes another change in the 
environment, then the other change is an indirect physical change in the environment. For 
example, the construction of a new sewage treatment plant may facilitate population growth 
in the service area due to the increase in sewage treatment capacity and may lead to an 
increase in air pollution. 
(3) An indirect physical change is to be considered only if that change is a reasonably 
foreseeable impact which may be caused by the project. A change which is speculative or 
unlikely to occur is not reasonably foreseeable. 
(e) Economic and social changes resulting from a project shall not be treated as significant effects

--- page 74 ---
on the environment. Economic or social changes may be used, however, to determine that a 
physical change shall be regarded as a significant effect on the environment. Where a physical 
change is caused by economic or social effects of a project, the physical change may be 
regarded as a significant effect in the same manner as any other physical change resulting from 
the project. Alternatively, economic and social effects of a physical change may be used to 
determine that the physical change is a significant effect on the environment. If the physical 
change causes adverse economic or social effects on people, those adverse effects may be used 
as a factor in determining whether the physical change is significant. For example, if a project 
would cause overcrowding of a public facility and the overcrowding causes an adverse effect 
on people, the overcrowding would be regarded as a significant effect. 
(f) The decision as to whether a project may have one or more significant effects shall be based on 
substantial evidence in the record of the lead agency. 
(1) If the lead agency determines there is substantial evidence in the record that the project may 
have a significant effect on the environment, the lead agency shall prepare an EIR (Friends 
of B Street v. City of Hayward (1980) 106 Cal.App.3d 988). Said another way, if a lead 
agency is presented with a fair argument that a project may have a significant effect on the 
environment, the lead agency shall prepare an EIR even though it may also be presented 
with other substantial evidence that the project will not have a significant effect (No Oil, 
Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (1974) 13 Cal.3d 68). 
(2) If the lead agency determines there is substantial evidence in the record that the project may 
have a significant effect on the environment but the lead agency determines that revisions 
in the project plans or proposals made by, or agreed to by, the applicant would avoid the 
effects or mitigate the effects to a point where clearly no significant effect on the 
environment would occur and there is no substantial evidence in light of the whole record 
before the public agency that the project, as revised, may have a significant effect on the 
environment then a mitigated negative declaration shall be prepared. 
(3) If the lead agency determines there is no substantial evidence that the project may have a 
significant effect on the environment, the lead agency shall prepare a negative declaration 
(Friends of B Street v. City of Hayward (1980) 106 Cal.App. 3d 988). 
(4) The existence of public controversy over the environmental effects of a project will not 
require preparation of an EIR if there is no substantial evidence before the agency that the 
project may have a significant effect on the environment. 
(5) Argument, speculation, unsubstantiated opinion or narrative, or evidence that is clearly 
inaccurate or erroneous, or evidence that is not credible, shall not constitute substantial evidence. Substantial evidence shall 
include facts, reasonable assumptions predicated upon 
facts, and expert opinion support by facts. 
(6) Evidence of economic and social impacts that do not contribute to or are not caused by 
physical changes in the environment is not substantial evidence that the project may have a 
significant effect on the environment. 
(7) The provisions of sections 15162, 15163, and 15164 apply when the project being analyzed 
is a change to, or further approval for, a project for which an EIR or negative declaration 
was previously certified or adopted (e.g. a tentative subdivision, conditional use permit). 
Under case law, the fair argument standard does not apply to determinations of significance 
pursuant to sections 15162, 15163, and 15164. 
(g) After application of the principles set forth above in Section 15064(f)(g), and in marginal cases 
where it is not clear whether there is substantial evidence that a project may have a significant 
effect on the environment, the lead agency shall be guided by the following principle: If there is 
disagreement among expert opinion supported by facts over the significance of an effect on the 
environment, the Lead Agency shall treat the effect as significant and shall prepare an EIR. 
(h) (1) When assessing whether a cumulative effect requires an EIR, the lead agency shall consider 
whether the cumulative impact is significant and whether the effects of the project are 
cumulatively considerable. An EIR must be prepared if the cumulative impact may be 
significant and the project’s incremental effect, though individually limited, is cumulatively 
considerable. “Cumulatively considerable” means that the incremental effects of an 
individual project are significant when viewed in connection with the effects of past 
projects, the effects of other current projects, and the effects of probable future projects. 
(2) A lead agency may determine in an initial study that a project’s contribution to a significant 
cumulative impact will be rendered less than cumulatively considerable and thus is not 
significant. When a project might contribute to a significant cumulative impact, but the 
contribution will be rendered less than cumulatively considerable through mitigation 
measures set forth in a mitigated negative declaration, the initial study shall briefly indicate 
and explain how the contribution has been rendered less than cumulatively considerable.

--- page 75 ---
(3) A lead agency may determine that a project’s incremental contribution to a cumulative 
effect is not cumulatively considerable if the project will comply with the requirements in a 
previously approved plan or mitigation program (including, but not limited to, water quality 
control plan, air quality attainment or maintenance plan, integrated waste management 
plan, habitat conservation plan, natural community conservation plan, plans or regulations 
for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions) that provides specific requirements that will 
avoid or substantially lessen the cumulative problem within the geographic area in which 
the project is located. Such plans or programs must be specified in law or adopted by the 
public agency with jurisdiction over the affected resources through a public review process 
to implement, interpret, or make specific the law enforced or administered by the public 
agency. When relying on a plan, regulation or program, the lead agency should explain 
how implementing the particular requirements in the plan, regulation or program ensure 
that the project’s incremental contribution to the cumulative effect is not cumulatively 
considerable. If there is substantial evidence that the possible effects of a particular project 
are still cumulatively considerable notwithstanding that the project complies with the 
specified plan or mitigation program addressing the cumulative problem, an EIR must be 
prepared for the project. 
(4) The mere existence of significant cumulative impacts caused by other projects alone shall 
not constitute substantial evidence that the proposed project’s incremental effects are 
cumulatively considerable. Note: Authority cited: Sections 21083, 21083.05, Public Resources Code. Reference: Sections 
21003, 21065, 21068, 21080, 21082, 21082.1, 21082.2, 21083, 21083.05, and 21100, Public 
Resources Code; No Oil, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (1974) 13 Cal.3d 68; San Joaquin 
Raptor/Wildlife Center v. County of Stanislaus (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 608; Gentry v. City of 
Murrieta (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 1359; Laurel Heights Improvement Assn. v. Regents of the 
University of California (1993) 6 Cal.4th 1112; and Communities for a Better Environment v. 
California Resources Agency (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 98; Protect the Historic Amador Waterways 
v. Amador Water Agency (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 1099; and Rominger v. County of Colusa (2014) 
229 Cal.App.4th 690. 
 
15064.7. THRESHOLDS OF SIGNIFICANCE. 
(a) Each public agency is encouraged to develop and publish thresholds of significance that the 
agency uses in the determination of the significance of environmental effects. A threshold of 
significance is an identifiable quantitative, qualitative or performance level of a particular 
environmental effect, non-compliance with which means the effect will normally be determined 
to be significant by the agency and compliance with which means the effect normally will be 
determined to be less than significant. 
(b) Each public agency is encouraged to develop and publish thresholds of significance that the 
agency uses in the determination of the significance of environmental effects. Thresholds of 
significance to be adopted for general use as part of the lead agency’s environmental review 
process must be adopted by ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation, and developed through a 
public review process and be supported by substantial evidence. Lead agencies may also use 
thresholds on a case-by-case basis as provided in Section 15064(b)(2). 
(c) When adopting or using thresholds of significance, a lead agency may consider thresholds of 
significance previously adopted or recommended by other public agencies or recommended by 
experts, provided the decision of the lead agency to adopt such thresholds is supported by 
substantial evidence. 
(d) Using environmental standards as thresholds of significance promotes consistency in 
significance determinations and integrates environmental review with other environmental 
program planning and regulation. Any public agency may adopt or use an environmental 
standard as a threshold of significance. In adopting or using an environmental standard as a 
threshold of significance, a public agency shall explain how the particular requirements of that 
environmental standard reduce project impacts, including cumulative impacts, to a level that is 
less than significant, and why the environmental standard is relevant to the analysis of the 
project under consideration. For the purposes of this subdivision, an “environmental standard” 
is a rule of general application that is adopted by a public agency through a public review 
process and that is all of the following: 
(1) a quantitative, qualitative or performance requirement found in an ordinance, resolution, 
rule, regulation, order, plan or other environmental requirement; 
(2) adopted for the purpose of environmental protection; 
(3) addresses the environmental effect caused by the project; and,

--- page 76 ---
(4) applies to the project under review. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 21083, Public Resources Code. Reference: Sections 21000, 21082 
and 21083, Public Resources Code; Communities for a Better Environment v. California Resources 
Agency (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 98; Protect the Historic Amador Waterways v. Amador Water 
Agency (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 1099. 
 
15370. MITIGATION 
“Mitigation” includes: 
(a) Avoiding the impact altogether by not taking a certain action or parts of an action. 
(b) Minimizing impacts by limiting the degree or magnitude of the action and its implementation. 
(c) Rectifying the impact by repairing, rehabilitating, or restoring the impacted environment. 
(d) Reducing or eliminating the impact over time by preservation and maintenance operations 
during the life of the action. 
(e) Compensating for the impact by replacing or providing substitute resources or environments, 
including through permanent protection of such resources in the form of conservation 
easements. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 21083, Public Resources Code; Reference: Sections 21002, 21002.1, 
21081, and 21100(c), Public Resources Code; Masonite Corporation v. County of Mendocino (2013) 
218 Cal.App.4th 230. 
 
15364. FEASIBLE 
“Feasible” means capable of being accomplished in a successful manner within a reasonable period 
of time, taking into account economic, environmental, legal, social, and technological factors. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 21083, Public Resources Code; Reference: Sections 21002, 21002.1, 
21004, 21061.1, 21080.5, and 21081, Public Resources Code; Section 4, Chapter 1438 of the 
Statutes of 1982 
 
15355. CUMULATIVE IMPACTS 
“Cumulative impacts” refers to two or more individual effects which, when considered together, 
are considerable or which compound or increase other environmental impacts. 
(a) The individual effects may be changes resulting from a single project or a number of separate 
projects. 
(b) The cumulative impact from several projects is the change in the environment which results 
from the incremental impact of the project when added to other closely related past, present, 
and reasonably foreseeable probable future projects. Cumulative impacts can result from 
individually minor but collectively significant projects taking place over a period of time. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 21083, Public Resources Code; Reference: Section 21083(b), Public 
Resources Code; Whitman v. Board of Supervisors, 88 Cal. App. 3d 397, San Franciscans for 
Reasonable Growth v. City and County of San Francisco (1984) 151 Cal. App. 3d 61, Formerly 
Section 15023.5. 
15384. SUBSTANTIAL EVIDENCE 
(a) “Substantial evidence” as used in these guidelines means enough relevant information and 
reasonable inferences from this information that a fair argument can be made to support a 
conclusion, even though other conclusions might also be reached. Whether a fair argument can 
be made that the project may have a significant effect on the environment is to be determined 
by examining the whole record before the lead agency. Argument, speculation, unsubstantiated  
opinion or narrative, evidence which is clearly erroneous or inaccurate, or evidence of social or 
economic impacts which do not contribute to or are not caused by physical impacts on the 
environment does not constitute substantial evidence. 
(b) Substantial evidence shall include facts, reasonable assumptions predicated upon facts, and 
expert opinion supported by facts. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 21083, Public Resources Code; References: Sections 21080, 
21082.2, 21168, and 21168.5, Public Resources Code; No Oil, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (1974) 13 
Cal.3d 68; Running Fence Corp. v. Superior Court (1975) 51 Cal.App.3d 400; Friends of B Street 
v. City of Hayward (1980) 106 Cal.App.3d 988.

--- page 77 ---
MAJOR TRANSIT STOP 
Pub. Resources Code, § 21064.3 (“‘Major transit stop’ means a site containing an existing rail transit station, a ferry terminal 
served by either a bus or rail transit service, or the intersection of two or more major bus routes with a frequency of service 
interval of 15 minutes or less during the morning and afternoon peak commute periods.”). 
 
HIGH QUALITY TRANSIT CORRIDOR 
Pub. Resources Code, § 21155 (“For purposes of this section, a high-quality transit corridor means a corridor with fixed route bus 
service with service intervals no longer than 15 minutes during peak commute hours.”). 
 
FAIR ARGUMENT 
A fair argument must be supported by substantial evidence that the project may have a significant impact on the environment.  
The fair argument must be based on the whole record before the lead agency. The fair argument standard entails a strong 
presumption in favor of requiring full EIRs. The presumption is embodied in numerous provisions, which require that if a project 
is not exempt and may cause a potential adverse environmental impact, the lead agency must prepare an EIR.13 It takes only one 
piece of substantial evidence showing that a project may have a significant adverse impact to require preparation of a full EIR 
under the fair argument standard, even if other and more voluminous contrary evidence exists.14Given this very low threshold, 
there is much less risk of losing a CEQA challenge if an EIR is prepared from the outset for big or controversial projects.

--- page 78 ---
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
 
Oakland, California 
 
 
MEMORANDUM  
 
Date: 
June 15, 2020  
Project #: 24441 
To: 
City of San Mateo, Sue-Ellen Atkinson 
From: 
Damian Stefanakis, Fernando Sotelo, Claire Casey (Kittelson & Associates, Inc.) 
Project: 
City of San Mateo VMT Implementation 
Subject: 
Considerations for Establishing VMT Thresholds 
 
 
This memorandum (memo) documents recommendations published by the California Office of Planning 
and Research (OPR) for implementing SB 743 and provides recommendations for the City of San Mateo 
(City) in implementing key elements under the legislation. The OPR’s Technical Advisory on Evaluating 
Transportation Impacts in CEQA1 (Technical Advisory) provides guidance and recommendations for lead 
agencies to establish VMT metrics and implement thresholds for projects under CEQA review. OPR’s 
recommendations are not binding and lead agencies ultimately have the discretion to set or apply their 
own significance thresholds, provided they are based on significant evidence. OPR has provided detailed 
recommendations pertaining to the appropriate methodology for analyzing impacts related to 
residential, office, retail, and other land use projects. There are several key elements for implementing 
SB 743-compliant standards for land use projects, including the appropriate VMT estimating tools, 
metrics, and impact thresholds.  
Jurisdictions updating to SB 743-consistent transportation analysis guidelines must implement several 
key elements. This memo summarizes recommendations from OPR followed by the recommended 
approach for the City of San Mateo under each key element. 
SUMMARY 
 The recommendations provided in the memorandum for the City of San Mateo in establishing VMT 
metrics and thresholds are as follows:  
• 
Land Use Development Projects 
o Existing Baseline Scenario 
 
VMT Metrics: Analyze VMT per capita for residential projects, VMT per employee 
for employment projects, and total VMT for retail projects. 
 
1 Technical Advisory on Evaluating Transportation Impacts in CEQA. California Office of Planning and Research, December 2018.

--- page 79 ---
City of San Mateo VMT Implementation 
Project #: 24441 
June 15, 2020 
Page 2 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
 
Oakland, California 
 
Impact Thresholds: For residential and employment projects, find a significant 
impact of VMT per capita or per employee is more than 85% of the existing 
countywide average. For retail projects, the impact threshold should be an 
increase in existing total VMT.  
o Cumulative Scenario: Assess consistency with the General Plan and RTP/SCS; if 
inconsistent, conduct an assessment of total citywide VMT with and without the project. 
o Redevelopment Projects: Compare net change in VMT to determine if a detailed VMT 
analysis is needed.  
o Analyzing Mixed-Use Projects: Analyze each use separately, taking internalization into 
account. 
• 
General Plans and Specific Plans: Compare areawide VMT per capita and VMT per employee in 
the horizon year plus project scenario to existing conditions. 
• 
Transportation (Infrastructure) Projects 
o Types of Projects to Analyze: Utilize recommended list of project types (consistent with 
OPR’s recommendations). 
o Estimating Tool and Methodology: Utilize the City’s most recent model and the induced 
demand formula. 
o VMT Metric and Threshold: Assess total citywide VMT, with a threshold of no increase. 
LAND USE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS 
There are several components for implementing SB 743-compliant standards for land use projects. OPR 
has provided recommendations pertaining to the appropriate methodology for analyzing impacts related 
to residential, office, and retail projects. However, these recommendations still allow for discretion by 
local agencies in setting thresholds and evaluating land uses other than residential, office, and retail.  
VMT Metrics and Thresholds for Land Use Types  
OPR Recommendation 
OPR recommends different approaches in its Technical Advisory depending on the type of land use.  
Given that residential, office and retail projects tend to have the greatest influence of land use projects 
on VMT in California, OPR has provided recommended metrics and thresholds for these project types. 
For residential and office projects, OPR recommends the use of an efficiency metric (VMT per capita or 
VMT per employee). For retail, the recommended metric is total VMT. The Technical Advisory does not 
recommend metrics and thresholds for other land use types. It states that lead agencies may develop 
specific thresholds using location-specific information. The following describes the approach 
recommended in OPR’s Technical Advisory for residential, office and retail uses.

--- page 80 ---
City of San Mateo VMT Implementation 
Project #: 24441 
June 15, 2020 
Page 3 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
 
Oakland, California 
• 
Residential Projects: OPR recommends the use of existing VMT per capita2 for residential 
projects. OPR recommends that VMT-based evaluations should be compared to the citywide or 
regional existing VMT per capita average minus 15% (OPR does not indicate whether utilizing the 
citywide or regional average is preferable). In other words, a project that generates a per capita 
VMT that is more than 85% of existing VMT may result in a significant impact. If a threshold based 
on citywide VMT is used for residential projects, proposed development should not cumulatively 
exceed the number of units specified in the regional Sustainable Communities Strategy (SCS) for 
that city and should be consistent with the SCS. 
• 
Office Projects: OPR recommends the use of existing VMT per employee3 for office projects. 
Typically the employee estimates are derived from the model TAZ data which is based on ABAG 
or city general plan amounts. An employment project would have a significant impact if its VMT 
per employee is more than 85% of the existing regional average. For example, if the regional 
average 15 VMT per employee, a project would have a significant impact if its VMT per employee 
is greater than 12.75(85% of the existing regional average). In cases where the region is 
substantially larger than the geography over which most workers would be expected to live, OPR 
states that it might be appropriate to refer to a smaller geography, such as the county, that 
includes the area over which nearly all workers would be expected to live. 
• 
Retail Projects: OPR recommends estimating total VMT in an area as the metric to assess retail 
projects. A determination of impact would be based on measuring the net decrease or increase 
in VMT in the study area with and without the project. An impact would occur if there is increase 
in total VMT resulting from the project. For example, if a new local-serving corner store opens 
that reduces trips to more distant retail locations (since residents now have a local option), this 
would shorten trips and result in a net decrease in VMT and no significant impact. However, if a 
regional shopping center opens and increases trip lengths and VMT, this would result in an 
impact. 
Considerations for the City of San Mateo 
Jurisdictions updating transportation analysis guidelines to be consistent with SB 743 must implement 
VMT metrics and thresholds for land use developments, transportation projects, and long-term plans. 
The OPR Technical Advisory provides recommendations for the types of projects and thresholds of 
significance to apply to those projects. Lead agencies should adopt thresholds considering guidance from 
OPR, based on substantial evidence with development, development context, and community interests.  
When setting thresholds, lead agencies should consider the goals listed in Section 21099 of the public 
 
2 When estimating VMT using trip-based models, the home-based VMT per capita should be used. For activity-based 
models, the VMT per capita should be used. 
3 When estimating VMT using trip-based models, home-based work VMT per employee should be used. For activity-
based models, the VMT per employee should be used.

--- page 81 ---
City of San Mateo VMT Implementation 
Project #: 24441 
June 15, 2020 
Page 4 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
 
Oakland, California 
resource code: (1) promote the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, (2) the development of 
multimodal transportation networks, and (3) a diversity of land uses. 
According to regulations in the CEQA Guidelines,4 the thresholds developed must be an identifiable 
quantitative, qualitative or performance level that are supported by substantial evidence. 
The thresholds adopted by agencies generally fall into the following categories: 
• 
Consistent with OPR’s recommendations thresholds for residential and office uses 15% below the 
existing average VMT. 
• 
Consistent with VMT and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions reduction goals in long range plans 
such as a Climate Action Plan (CAP) or General Plan. 
• 
Consistent with the Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) and Sustainable Communities Strategy 
(SCS) goals for VMT or GHG. 
• 
No net increase in VMT (0% below existing average VMT). 
Currently, the City’s CAP sets an emissions reduction target of 15% below 2005 levels by 2020. The Plan 
also targets lower per-capita targets for 2030 and 2050. Furthermore, the Sustainable Communities Act 
from the State of California sets the Bay Area’s GHG target to 7% per capita reduction by 2020 and 15% 
per capita reduction by 2035. Therefore, using a threshold of 15% below average VMT for residential and 
office projects is consistent with established citywide and regional GHG emission goals.   
OPR’s recommended approach for residential and office projects sets the expectation that while these 
uses generate new trips, these projects should lower VMT generation rates per person, as evident in 
OPR’s recommended residential and office project thresholds of 15% below the regional average VMT 
per resident or employee. On the other hand, new retail projects are expected to reroute existing trips, 
so these projects should aim to decrease or maintain VMT levels, as evident in OPR’s recommended retail 
threshold of no increase over existing total VMT.  Impact thresholds for residential and employment 
projects should be developed for the existing baseline (or the closest available travel demand mode year). 
In addition, consistency with Plan Bay Area 2040, or the most current MTC RTP/SCS, should be 
maintained.  
The City of San Mateo should require assessing VMT per capita for residential projects, VMT per 
employee for office projects, and total VMT for retail projects, consistent with OPR recommendations. 
Table 1 summarizes existing VMT averages per capita and per employee from the current San Mateo 
Model for the City and for County.   
 
4 Section§ 15064.7, see Attachment A

--- page 82 ---
City of San Mateo VMT Implementation 
Project #: 24441 
June 15, 2020 
Page 5 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
 
Oakland, California 
Table 1: City of San Mateo Model VMT Results for Existing (Baseline) Conditions 
Project Type 
Baseline 
Geography 
VMT Average 
VMT 15% Below Average 1 
Residential 
City 
16.0 VMT/capita 
13.6 VMT/capita 
County 
15.5 VMT/capita 
13.1 VMT/capita 
Office 
City2 
16.7 VMT/employee 
14.2 VMT/employee 
County 
18.0 VMT/employee 
15.3 VMT/employee 
Note: 1. These thresholds represent a 15% reduction from their respective averages.  
2. For informational purposes only, OPR does not recommend the use of a Citywide VMT average to establish thresholds for office 
uses, since the region used should include the area over which nearly all workers would be expected to live. 
Grey shaded cells indicate a suggested threshold for land use projects. 
 
The following suggested thresholds which would result in an impact are described below: 
• 
Residential: would result in a significant impact if its VMT per capita is more than 13.1  
• 
Office: would result in a significant impact if its VMT per employee is more than 15.3. 
• 
Retail: would result in a significant impact if there is an increase in total VMT. 
Additionally, the City may add thresholds for other land uses such as industrial, warehouses, schools, 
auto related uses, hotels, etc.  OPR’s recommendation to use VMT per employee suggests that land uses 
that primarily generate trips related to employees may rely on that metric. Therefore, VMT per employee 
may be the applicable metric for land uses such as research and development, light industrial uses, and 
hotels, which primarily generate trips related to employment. For example, an office, industrial, or other 
employment project would have a significant impact if its VMT per employee is more than 85% of the 
regional average.  
Suggested metrics for land uses are outlined below:  
• 
VMT/capita: residential projects 
• 
VMT/employee: office, research and development, light industrial, hotels, and other 
employment projects 
• 
Total VMT: retail projects 
For other land uses such as private schools, the City should require analyzing the trip-making 
characteristics of the project and determining whether to use the metrics and thresholds used for 
residential, employment, or retail projects. Due to the regional-serving nature of private schools, the City 
may require these schools to be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. Public schools are exempt from city 
review and therefore CEQA analysis.

--- page 83 ---
City of San Mateo VMT Implementation 
Project #: 24441 
June 15, 2020 
Page 6 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
 
Oakland, California 
Finally, the City may exempt public facilities that are publicly owned and operated such as police and fire 
departments, passive parks5, libraries, and local-serving community centers. The justification is that these 
services are local-serving and would reduce overall VMT. 
Redevelopment Projects 
OPR Recommendation 
OPR’s Technical Advisory recommends that if a project replaces existing uses and the project leads to a 
net overall increase in VMT compared to the previous uses, then the thresholds developed by the 
jurisdiction should apply. For example, if a residential project replaces an office project resulting in a net 
increase in VMT, the project’s VMT/capita should be compared with the thresholds for residential 
projects.  
If a project results in a net decrease in overall VMT, it may be presumed that the project would result in 
a less-than-significant impact. 
Considerations for the City of San Mateo 
The City should implement a methodology consistent with OPR. If the project is screened out of requiring 
a detailed VMT analysis due to map-based screening, adjacency to high-quality transit, being a small 
project, or consisting of local-serving retail or 100% affordable housing, then calculating the net change 
in VMT would no longer be required. In addition, if a project is partly screened out (e.g. mixed-use or 
partly affordable housing), this methodology would not apply. Otherwise, net VMT for both the current 
and proposed uses should be calculated. If net VMT increases, then the appropriate VMT metrics and 
thresholds should be applied. If the project is a mixed-use project, then the recommended approach is 
to analyze each individual use. 
Mixed-Used Projects 
OPR Recommendation 
OPR recommends that lead agencies evaluate each component of a mixed-use project independently 
and apply the significance threshold for each project type in the mixed-used project. Alternatively, a lead 
agency may consider only the project’s dominant use.  
Considerations for the City of San Mateo 
The City should require analyzing each use in a mixed-use project separately, taking internalization into 
account, consistent with OPR recommendations. This approach ensures that the vehicle trip-reducing 
 
5 A “Passive Park” is one which is principally designed for use in an informal way and requires little maintenance or 
management.

--- page 84 ---
City of San Mateo VMT Implementation 
Project #: 24441 
June 15, 2020 
Page 7 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
 
Oakland, California 
aspects of such projects are not omitted in the VMT analysis. Given that each component will be analyzed 
separately, the map-based, local-serving retail, and affordable housing screening criteria recommended 
in the Considerations for Implementing Screening Criteria Memorandum should be applied to the 
individual uses; uses that are not screened out can then be analyzed under their respective metrics and 
thresholds. 
Analysis Scenarios 
OPR Recommendation 
OPR generally recommends comparing VMT efficiency metrics (such as VMT per resident or per 
employee) to existing conditions. Per Section 15064 (h) (1) of the CEQA code, “when assessing whether 
a cumulative effect requires an EIR, the lead agency shall consider whether the cumulative impact6 is 
significant and whether the effects of the project are cumulatively considerable.” OPR states that a 
project that falls below an existing efficiency-based metric would have no cumulative impact distinct 
from the project impact. For example, if an office project generates a VMT per employee that is lower 
than 85% of the existing regional average VMT per employee, it would not have a significant impact and 
would therefore not have a cumulative impact either. However, when absolute VMT metrics (such as 
total VMT recommended for retail and transportation projects) are used, analyzing combined impacts 
for a cumulative impact analysis may be appropriate. In addition, when existing VMT per capita at the 
city or community level is utilized for analyzing a residential project, proposed development should not 
cumulatively exceed the number of units specified in the SCS for that city or community, and should be 
consistent with the SCS. 
Considerations for the City of San Mateo 
The City of San Mateo should require comparing VMT metrics to the existing baseline for the land uses 
under consideration. This would be the basis to determine impacts project-related impacts and would 
ensure that existing and near-term conditions are evaluated. It is also in line with OPR’s reasoning that a 
project that falls below an existing efficiency-based metric would have no cumulative impact distinct 
from the project impact.  
A cumulative scenario should also be assessed to ensure that future travel and VMT patterns are taken 
into account, in the form of thresholds related to total citywide VMT with and without the project as well 
as consistency with the City of San Mateo General Plan. Factors to make a determination for consistency 
with the General Plan or RTP/SCS would be established by a decision from the City Planning Commission 
or City Council and would be based on factors such as density, design, and consistency with the City’s 
General Plan goals and policies. Inconsistencies may be determined if the proposed land use density and 
 
6 Section 15355 defined cumulative impacts, refer to Attachment A.

--- page 85 ---
City of San Mateo VMT Implementation 
Project #: 24441 
June 15, 2020 
Page 8 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
 
Oakland, California 
land use is beyond the designation for the project site in the General Plan or RTP/SCS, in which the project 
may result in higher VMT compared to the applicable plan.  
i. 
If a project is consistent with the General Plan or RTP/SCS, it may be considered to result in a less-
than-significant cumulative impact. 
ii. 
If a project is not consistent with the General Plan, a cumulative impact analysis would be 
required to determine if the project would result in a net increase in VMT. 
GENERAL PLANS AND SPECIFIC PLANS 
In addition to guidance for evaluating individual land use projects, OPR provides guidance on assessing 
the potential VMT impacts of land use plans such as general plans and specific plans. 
OPR Recommendation 
OPR states that a general plan, area plan, or community plan may have a significant impact if proposed 
new residential, office, or retail land uses would in aggregate exceed the respective thresholds 
recommended by OPR. The VMT evaluation shall cover the full area over which the plan may affect travel 
patterns, and the VMT shall be counted in full and not truncated. The total VMT for the plan shall be 
identified for all trip purposes. 
Considerations for the City of San Mateo 
For future general, specific, or area plans, the City should utilize the most current version of the City of 
San Mateo travel demand model to compare existing (no project) and horizon year plus project VMT per 
capita to capture the effects of all trips. The VMT calculations should be conducted for the plan area (in 
the case of the general plan, all trips originating or ending in the city).  
The City may consider local goals and targets to evaluate general, specific, and area plans. The 
appropriate threshold for analyzing a plan can be informed by goals and targets such as increasing the 
mode share of walking and biking or reducing GHG emissions. For example, the current CAP sets an 
emissions reduction target of 15% below 2005 levels by 2020. 
The analysis should compare to existing (no project) conditions to the horizon year plus project condition 
using the VMT per capita metric for the home-based residential trips and the VMT per employee for the 
home-based attraction trips. Targets should be in line with the applicable area plan, general plan, RTP or 
CAP. 
TRANSPORTATION (INFRASTRUCTURE) PROJECTS  
There are several key elements for implementing SB 743-compliant standards for transportation projects. 
Transportation projects consist of any project where the primary purpose is to facilitate the transport of 
people or goods via any mode of travel. Examples of transportation projects are adding lanes on a 
highway or arterial, redesigning an intersection, implementing a new railway, or implementing bicycle,

--- page 86 ---
City of San Mateo VMT Implementation 
Project #: 24441 
June 15, 2020 
Page 9 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
 
Oakland, California 
pedestrian, and transit facilities. OPR guidance and recommendations for transportation projects in the 
City of San Mateo are outlined below. 
Types of Projects to Analyze 
OPR Recommendation 
OPR recommends analyzing transportation projects if they are expected to increase VMT. This analysis 
should typically be done at the planning stage (in the CIP/TIF). The OPR Technical Advisory provides a list 
of transportation project types that would not likely lead to a substantial or measurable increase in 
vehicle travel and generally should not require a VMT analysis. Examples of such projects are 
rehabilitation projects, safety projects, auxiliary lanes less than one mile in length, turning lanes, 
conversion to managed or transit lanes, road diets, removal or relocation of parking spaces, and the 
addition of non-motorized, transit, and active transportation facilities. Conversely, OPR states that 
projects that would likely lead to an increase in vehicle travel would require an analysis, such as the 
addition of through travel lanes. A full list is provided in OPR’s Technical Advisory and included in 
Attachment B to this memo. 
Considerations for the City of San Mateo 
The City’s approach should be consistent with OPR’s list of projects to analyze for VMT impacts, which 
excludes projects that do not encourage increased private vehicle usage (such as transit and active 
transportation projects). By being consistent with this approach, the City will ensure that VMT-reducing 
projects will be streamlined and projects that have the potential to increase VMT will be thoroughly 
assessed and mitigated as appropriate. 
The City may also consider excluding a transportation project from a detailed VMT analysis if it has 
already undergone a VMT analysis as part of a citywide plan (such as a general plan update) because the 
necessary VMT analysis and potential mitigations would have already been calculated and identified at 
the plan level. 
Estimating Tool and Methodology 
While travel demand models could capture the near term effects of additional roadway capacity due to 
rerouting and mode shift, they generally do not capture the long term effects of new vehicle trips 
generated as a result of the additional roadway capacity (also known as induced demand). Therefore, 
OPR recommends incorporating quantitative estimates of induced demand to calculate impacts of 
transportation projects. 
OPR Recommendation 
OPR recommends calculating the change in VMT using per-mile demand elasticities to capture the effects 
of induced demand. In its Technical Advisory, OPR cites recent research that estimates an elasticity of 
1.0, meaning that every percent change in lane miles results in a one percent increase in VMT.

--- page 87 ---
City of San Mateo VMT Implementation 
Project #: 24441 
June 15, 2020 
Page 10 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
 
Oakland, California 
Considerations for the City of San Mateo 
For projects that require a detailed VMT analysis (e.g., increasing vehicular throughput or not analyzed 
as part of a citywide plan), the City should require analysis using the most current travel demand model 
(City of San Mateo model) to estimate changes to citywide VMT due to rerouted trips. To capture long-
term effects, an induced demand assessment should be required using the following formula: 
[% increase in lane miles] x [existing VMT] x [elasticity] = [VMT resulting from the project] 
This formula calculates the net increase in VMT resulting from the project. The percent increase in lane 
miles corresponds to the percent change in total lane miles that will result from the project at the city 
level. Existing VMT is calculated using the most current travel demand model. Elasticity is given a value 
of 1.0 to be consistent with OPR recommendations.  
VMT Metric and Threshold 
Similarly to land use projects, OPR also provides specific threshold and metric recommendations for 
transportation projects to assess their effects on VMT.  
OPR Recommendation 
OPR recommends analyzing the effects of transportation projects by measuring the change in total VMT 
(as opposed to VMT per capita or per employee). However, OPR does not recommend a specific total 
VMT threshold. Rather, OPR recommends that a lead agency could develop a project-level threshold 
using the agency’s VMT level and budget delineated by the California Air Resources Board (CARB) Scoping 
Plan and the CARB Mobile Source Strategy. 
Considerations for the City of San Mateo 
The City should require total VMT in the City as the appropriate VMT metric, with the impact threshold 
being any increase in total VMT; this approach would discourage induced demand impacts by requiring 
that a baseline level of VMT in the City not be exceeded. The City can use the travel demand modeling 
being conducted as part of this SB 743 implementation to develop the baseline total VMT on City roads 
for both existing and cumulative conditions. This analysis would only be required for projects specified 
in the OPR’s technical advisory and listed in Attachment B (e.g. the addition of through travel lanes). 
CONCLUSION 
The recommendations for the City of San Mateo in establishing VMT metrics and thresholds are as 
follows:  
• 
Land Use Development Projects 
o Existing Baseline Scenario 
 
VMT Metrics: Analyze VMT per capita for residential projects, VMT per employee 
for employment projects, and total VMT for retail projects.

--- page 88 ---
City of San Mateo VMT Implementation 
Project #: 24441 
June 15, 2020 
Page 11 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
 
Oakland, California 
 
Impact Thresholds: For residential and employment projects, find a significant 
impact of VMT per capita or per employee is more than 85% of the existing 
countywide average. For retail projects, the impact threshold should be an 
increase in existing total VMT.  
o Cumulative Scenario: Assess consistency with the General Plan and RTP/SCS; if 
inconsistent, conduct an assessment of total citywide VMT with and without the project. 
o Redevelopment Projects: Compare net change in VMT to determine if a detailed VMT 
analysis is needed.  
o Analyzing Mixed-Use Projects: Analyze each use separately, taking internalization into 
account. 
• 
General Plans and Specific Plans: Compare areawide VMT per capita and VMT per employee in 
the horizon year plus project scenario to existing conditions. 
• 
Transportation (Infrastructure) Projects 
o Types of Projects to Analyze: Utilize recommended list of project types (consistent with 
OPR’s recommendations). 
o Estimating Tool and Methodology: Utilize the City’s most recent model and the induced 
demand formula. 
o VMT Metric and Threshold: Assess total citywide VMT, with a threshold of no increase. 
 
Attachments:  
• 
Attachment A: Key Definitions and CEQA Terminology 
• 
Attachment B: OPR Transportation Projects List 
• 
Attachment C: VMT maps

--- page 89 ---
Attachment A: Key Definitions and CEQA Terminology

--- page 90 ---
ATTACHMENT A 
 
 
CEQA Guidelines Appendix G, Environmental Checklist Form Sample Questions 
 
XVII. TRANSPORTATION 
 
 
a) 
Would the project conflict with a program, plan, ordinance or policy addressing the circulation system, including 
transit, roadway, bicycle and pedestrian facilities? 
 
b) 
Would the project conflict or be inconsistent with CEQA Guidelines § 15064.3, subdivision (b)? 
 
c) 
Substantially increase hazards due to a geometric design feature (e.g., sharp curves or dangerous intersections) or 
incompatible uses (e.g., farm equipment). 
 
d) 
Result in inadequate emergency access?

--- page 91 ---
CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS. TITLE 14, NATURAL RESOURCES 
DIVISION 6, RESOURCES AGENCY 
CHAPTER 3: GUIDELINES FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CALIFORNIA 
ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT 
 
 
SECTION 15064.3. DETERMINING THE SIGNIFICANCE OF TRANSPORTATION IMPACTS 
 
(a) 
Purpose 
 
This section describes specific considerations for evaluating a project’s transportation impacts. 
Generally, vehicle miles traveled is the most appropriate measure of transportation impacts. For 
the purposes of this section, “vehicle miles traveled” refers to the amount and distance of 
automobile travel attributable to a project. Other relevant considerations may include the 
effects of the project on transit and non-motorized travel. Except as provided in subdivision 
(b)(2) below (regarding roadway capacity), a project’s effect on automobile delay shall not 
constitute a significant environmental impact. 
 
(b) Criteria for Analyzing Transportation Impacts. 
 
(1) Land Use Projects. Vehicle miles traveled exceeding an applicable threshold of 
significance may indicate a significant impact. Generally, projects within one-half mile of 
either an existing major transit stop or a stop along an existing high quality transit corridor 
should be presumed to cause a less than significant transportation impact. Projects that 
decrease vehicle miles traveled in the project area compared to existing conditions should 
be presumed to have a less than significant transportation impact. 
 
(2) Transportation Projects. Transportation projects that reduce, or have no impact on, vehicle 
miles traveled should be presumed to cause a less than significant transportation impact. 
For roadway capacity projects, agencies have discretion to determine the appropriate 
measure of transportation impact consistent with CEQA and other applicable requirements. 
To the extent that such impacts have already been adequately addressed at a programmatic 
level, such as in a regional transportation plan EIR, a lead agency may tier from that 
analysis as provided in Section 15152. 
 
(3) Qualitative Analysis. If existing models or methods are not available to estimate the vehicle 
miles traveled for the particular project being considered, a lead agency may analyze the 
project’s vehicle miles traveled qualitatively. Such a qualitative analysis would evaluate 
factors such as the availability of transit, proximity to other destinations, etc. For many 
projects, a qualitative analysis of construction traffic may be appropriate. 
 
(4) Methodology. A lead agency has discretion to choose the most appropriate methodology to 
evaluate a project’s vehicle miles traveled, including whether to express the change in 
absolute terms, per capita, per household or in any other measure. A lead agency may use 
models to estimate a project’s vehicle miles traveled, and may revise those estimates to 
reflect professional judgment based on substantial evidence. Any assumptions used to 
estimate vehicle miles traveled and any revisions to model outputs should be documented 
and explained in the environmental document prepared for the project. The standard of 
adequacy in Section 15151 shall apply to the analysis described in this section. 
(c)Applicability.  
 
The provisions of this section shall apply prospectively as described in section 
15007. A lead agency may elect to be governed by the provisions of this section immediately. 
Beginning on July 1, 2020, the provisions of this section shall apply statewide. 
Note: Authority cited: Sections 21083 and 21099, Public Resources Code. Reference: Sections 
21099 and 21100, Public Resources Code; Cleveland National Forest Foundation v. San Diego 
Association of Governments (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 413; Ukiah Citizens for Safety First v. City of 
Ukiah (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 256; California Clean Energy Committee v. City of Woodland 
(2014) 225 Cal. App. 4th 173.

--- page 92 ---
15382. SIGNIFICANT EFFECT ON THE ENVIRONMENT 
“Significant effect on the environment” means a substantial, or potentially substantial, adverse 
change in any of the physical conditions within the area affected by the project, including land, air, 
water, minerals, flora, fauna, ambient noise, and objects of historic or aesthetic significance. An 
economic or social change by itself shall not be considered a significant effect on the environment. 
A social or economic change related to a physical change may be considered in determining 
whether the physical change is significant. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 21083, Public Resources Code; Reference: Sections 21068, 21083, 
21100, and 21151, Public Resources Code; Hecton v. People of the State of California, 58 Cal. 
App. 3d 653. 
 
15064. DETERMINING THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS CAUSED 
BY A PROJECT 
(a) Determining whether a project may have a significant effect plays a critical role in the CEQA 
process. 
(1) If there is substantial evidence, in light of the whole record before a lead agency, that a 
project may have a significant effect on the environment, the agency shall prepare a draft 
EIR. 
(2) When a final EIR identifies one or more significant effects, the Lead Agency and each 
Responsible Agency shall make a finding under Section 15091 for each significant effect 
and may need to make a statement of overriding considerations under Section 15093 for the 
project. 
(b) (1) The determination of whether a project may have a significant effect on the environment 
calls for careful judgment on the part of the public agency involved, based to the extent 
possible on scientific and factual data. An ironclad definition of significant effect is not 
always possible because the significance of an activity may vary with the setting. For 
example, an activity which may not be significant in an urban area may be significant in a 
rural area. 
(2) Thresholds of significance, as defined in Section 15064.7(a), may assist lead agencies in 
determining whether a project may cause a significant impact. When using a threshold, the 
lead agency should briefly explain how compliance with the threshold means that the 
project's impacts are less than significant. Compliance with the threshold does not relieve a 
lead agency of the obligation to consider substantial evidence indicating that the project’s 
environmental effects may still be significant. 
(c) In determining whether an effect will be adverse or beneficial, the Lead Agency shall consider 
the views held by members of the public in all areas affected as expressed in the whole record 
before the lead agency. Before requiring the preparation of an EIR, the Lead Agency must still 
determine whether environmental change itself might be substantial. 
(d) In evaluating the significance of the environmental effect of a project, the Lead Agency shall 
consider direct physical changes in the environment which may be caused by the project and 
reasonably foreseeable indirect physical changes in the environment which may be caused by 
the project. 
(1) A direct physical change in the environment is a physical change in the environment which 
is caused by and immediately related to the project. Examples of direct physical changes in the environment are the dust, noise, 
and traffic of heavy equipment that would result from 
construction of a sewage treatment plant and possible odors from operation of the plant. 
(2) An indirect physical change in the environment is a physical change in the environment 
which is not immediately related to the project, but which is caused indirectly by the 
project. If a direct physical change in the environment in turn causes another change in the 
environment, then the other change is an indirect physical change in the environment. For 
example, the construction of a new sewage treatment plant may facilitate population growth 
in the service area due to the increase in sewage treatment capacity and may lead to an 
increase in air pollution. 
(3) An indirect physical change is to be considered only if that change is a reasonably 
foreseeable impact which may be caused by the project. A change which is speculative or 
unlikely to occur is not reasonably foreseeable. 
(e) Economic and social changes resulting from a project shall not be treated as significant effects

--- page 93 ---
on the environment. Economic or social changes may be used, however, to determine that a 
physical change shall be regarded as a significant effect on the environment. Where a physical 
change is caused by economic or social effects of a project, the physical change may be 
regarded as a significant effect in the same manner as any other physical change resulting from 
the project. Alternatively, economic and social effects of a physical change may be used to 
determine that the physical change is a significant effect on the environment. If the physical 
change causes adverse economic or social effects on people, those adverse effects may be used 
as a factor in determining whether the physical change is significant. For example, if a project 
would cause overcrowding of a public facility and the overcrowding causes an adverse effect 
on people, the overcrowding would be regarded as a significant effect. 
(f) The decision as to whether a project may have one or more significant effects shall be based on 
substantial evidence in the record of the lead agency. 
(1) If the lead agency determines there is substantial evidence in the record that the project may 
have a significant effect on the environment, the lead agency shall prepare an EIR (Friends 
of B Street v. City of Hayward (1980) 106 Cal.App.3d 988). Said another way, if a lead 
agency is presented with a fair argument that a project may have a significant effect on the 
environment, the lead agency shall prepare an EIR even though it may also be presented 
with other substantial evidence that the project will not have a significant effect (No Oil, 
Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (1974) 13 Cal.3d 68). 
(2) If the lead agency determines there is substantial evidence in the record that the project may 
have a significant effect on the environment but the lead agency determines that revisions 
in the project plans or proposals made by, or agreed to by, the applicant would avoid the 
effects or mitigate the effects to a point where clearly no significant effect on the 
environment would occur and there is no substantial evidence in light of the whole record 
before the public agency that the project, as revised, may have a significant effect on the 
environment then a mitigated negative declaration shall be prepared. 
(3) If the lead agency determines there is no substantial evidence that the project may have a 
significant effect on the environment, the lead agency shall prepare a negative declaration 
(Friends of B Street v. City of Hayward (1980) 106 Cal.App. 3d 988). 
(4) The existence of public controversy over the environmental effects of a project will not 
require preparation of an EIR if there is no substantial evidence before the agency that the 
project may have a significant effect on the environment. 
(5) Argument, speculation, unsubstantiated opinion or narrative, or evidence that is clearly 
inaccurate or erroneous, or evidence that is not credible, shall not constitute substantial evidence. Substantial evidence shall 
include facts, reasonable assumptions predicated upon 
facts, and expert opinion support by facts. 
(6) Evidence of economic and social impacts that do not contribute to or are not caused by 
physical changes in the environment is not substantial evidence that the project may have a 
significant effect on the environment. 
(7) The provisions of sections 15162, 15163, and 15164 apply when the project being analyzed 
is a change to, or further approval for, a project for which an EIR or negative declaration 
was previously certified or adopted (e.g. a tentative subdivision, conditional use permit). 
Under case law, the fair argument standard does not apply to determinations of significance 
pursuant to sections 15162, 15163, and 15164. 
(g) After application of the principles set forth above in Section 15064(f)(g), and in marginal cases 
where it is not clear whether there is substantial evidence that a project may have a significant 
effect on the environment, the lead agency shall be guided by the following principle: If there is 
disagreement among expert opinion supported by facts over the significance of an effect on the 
environment, the Lead Agency shall treat the effect as significant and shall prepare an EIR. 
(h) (1) When assessing whether a cumulative effect requires an EIR, the lead agency shall consider 
whether the cumulative impact is significant and whether the effects of the project are 
cumulatively considerable. An EIR must be prepared if the cumulative impact may be 
significant and the project’s incremental effect, though individually limited, is cumulatively 
considerable. “Cumulatively considerable” means that the incremental effects of an 
individual project are significant when viewed in connection with the effects of past 
projects, the effects of other current projects, and the effects of probable future projects. 
(2) A lead agency may determine in an initial study that a project’s contribution to a significant 
cumulative impact will be rendered less than cumulatively considerable and thus is not 
significant. When a project might contribute to a significant cumulative impact, but the 
contribution will be rendered less than cumulatively considerable through mitigation 
measures set forth in a mitigated negative declaration, the initial study shall briefly indicate 
and explain how the contribution has been rendered less than cumulatively considerable.

--- page 94 ---
(3) A lead agency may determine that a project’s incremental contribution to a cumulative 
effect is not cumulatively considerable if the project will comply with the requirements in a 
previously approved plan or mitigation program (including, but not limited to, water quality 
control plan, air quality attainment or maintenance plan, integrated waste management 
plan, habitat conservation plan, natural community conservation plan, plans or regulations 
for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions) that provides specific requirements that will 
avoid or substantially lessen the cumulative problem within the geographic area in which 
the project is located. Such plans or programs must be specified in law or adopted by the 
public agency with jurisdiction over the affected resources through a public review process 
to implement, interpret, or make specific the law enforced or administered by the public 
agency. When relying on a plan, regulation or program, the lead agency should explain 
how implementing the particular requirements in the plan, regulation or program ensure 
that the project’s incremental contribution to the cumulative effect is not cumulatively 
considerable. If there is substantial evidence that the possible effects of a particular project 
are still cumulatively considerable notwithstanding that the project complies with the 
specified plan or mitigation program addressing the cumulative problem, an EIR must be 
prepared for the project. 
(4) The mere existence of significant cumulative impacts caused by other projects alone shall 
not constitute substantial evidence that the proposed project’s incremental effects are 
cumulatively considerable. Note: Authority cited: Sections 21083, 21083.05, Public Resources Code. Reference: Sections 
21003, 21065, 21068, 21080, 21082, 21082.1, 21082.2, 21083, 21083.05, and 21100, Public 
Resources Code; No Oil, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (1974) 13 Cal.3d 68; San Joaquin 
Raptor/Wildlife Center v. County of Stanislaus (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 608; Gentry v. City of 
Murrieta (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 1359; Laurel Heights Improvement Assn. v. Regents of the 
University of California (1993) 6 Cal.4th 1112; and Communities for a Better Environment v. 
California Resources Agency (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 98; Protect the Historic Amador Waterways 
v. Amador Water Agency (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 1099; and Rominger v. County of Colusa (2014) 
229 Cal.App.4th 690. 
 
15064.7. THRESHOLDS OF SIGNIFICANCE. 
(a) Each public agency is encouraged to develop and publish thresholds of significance that the 
agency uses in the determination of the significance of environmental effects. A threshold of 
significance is an identifiable quantitative, qualitative or performance level of a particular 
environmental effect, non-compliance with which means the effect will normally be determined 
to be significant by the agency and compliance with which means the effect normally will be 
determined to be less than significant. 
(b) Each public agency is encouraged to develop and publish thresholds of significance that the 
agency uses in the determination of the significance of environmental effects. Thresholds of 
significance to be adopted for general use as part of the lead agency’s environmental review 
process must be adopted by ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation, and developed through a 
public review process and be supported by substantial evidence. Lead agencies may also use 
thresholds on a case-by-case basis as provided in Section 15064(b)(2). 
(c) When adopting or using thresholds of significance, a lead agency may consider thresholds of 
significance previously adopted or recommended by other public agencies or recommended by 
experts, provided the decision of the lead agency to adopt such thresholds is supported by 
substantial evidence. 
(d) Using environmental standards as thresholds of significance promotes consistency in 
significance determinations and integrates environmental review with other environmental 
program planning and regulation. Any public agency may adopt or use an environmental 
standard as a threshold of significance. In adopting or using an environmental standard as a 
threshold of significance, a public agency shall explain how the particular requirements of that 
environmental standard reduce project impacts, including cumulative impacts, to a level that is 
less than significant, and why the environmental standard is relevant to the analysis of the 
project under consideration. For the purposes of this subdivision, an “environmental standard” 
is a rule of general application that is adopted by a public agency through a public review 
process and that is all of the following: 
(1) a quantitative, qualitative or performance requirement found in an ordinance, resolution, 
rule, regulation, order, plan or other environmental requirement; 
(2) adopted for the purpose of environmental protection; 
(3) addresses the environmental effect caused by the project; and,

--- page 95 ---
(4) applies to the project under review. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 21083, Public Resources Code. Reference: Sections 21000, 21082 
and 21083, Public Resources Code; Communities for a Better Environment v. California Resources 
Agency (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 98; Protect the Historic Amador Waterways v. Amador Water 
Agency (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 1099. 
 
15370. MITIGATION 
“Mitigation” includes: 
(a) Avoiding the impact altogether by not taking a certain action or parts of an action. 
(b) Minimizing impacts by limiting the degree or magnitude of the action and its implementation. 
(c) Rectifying the impact by repairing, rehabilitating, or restoring the impacted environment. 
(d) Reducing or eliminating the impact over time by preservation and maintenance operations 
during the life of the action. 
(e) Compensating for the impact by replacing or providing substitute resources or environments, 
including through permanent protection of such resources in the form of conservation 
easements. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 21083, Public Resources Code; Reference: Sections 21002, 21002.1, 
21081, and 21100(c), Public Resources Code; Masonite Corporation v. County of Mendocino (2013) 
218 Cal.App.4th 230. 
 
15364. FEASIBLE 
“Feasible” means capable of being accomplished in a successful manner within a reasonable period 
of time, taking into account economic, environmental, legal, social, and technological factors. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 21083, Public Resources Code; Reference: Sections 21002, 21002.1, 
21004, 21061.1, 21080.5, and 21081, Public Resources Code; Section 4, Chapter 1438 of the 
Statutes of 1982 
 
15355. CUMULATIVE IMPACTS 
“Cumulative impacts” refers to two or more individual effects which, when considered together, 
are considerable or which compound or increase other environmental impacts. 
(a) The individual effects may be changes resulting from a single project or a number of separate 
projects. 
(b) The cumulative impact from several projects is the change in the environment which results 
from the incremental impact of the project when added to other closely related past, present, 
and reasonably foreseeable probable future projects. Cumulative impacts can result from 
individually minor but collectively significant projects taking place over a period of time. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 21083, Public Resources Code; Reference: Section 21083(b), Public 
Resources Code; Whitman v. Board of Supervisors, 88 Cal. App. 3d 397, San Franciscans for 
Reasonable Growth v. City and County of San Francisco (1984) 151 Cal. App. 3d 61, Formerly 
Section 15023.5. 
15384. SUBSTANTIAL EVIDENCE 
(a) “Substantial evidence” as used in these guidelines means enough relevant information and 
reasonable inferences from this information that a fair argument can be made to support a 
conclusion, even though other conclusions might also be reached. Whether a fair argument can 
be made that the project may have a significant effect on the environment is to be determined 
by examining the whole record before the lead agency. Argument, speculation, unsubstantiated  
opinion or narrative, evidence which is clearly erroneous or inaccurate, or evidence of social or 
economic impacts which do not contribute to or are not caused by physical impacts on the 
environment does not constitute substantial evidence. 
(b) Substantial evidence shall include facts, reasonable assumptions predicated upon facts, and 
expert opinion supported by facts. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 21083, Public Resources Code; References: Sections 21080, 
21082.2, 21168, and 21168.5, Public Resources Code; No Oil, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (1974) 13 
Cal.3d 68; Running Fence Corp. v. Superior Court (1975) 51 Cal.App.3d 400; Friends of B Street 
v. City of Hayward (1980) 106 Cal.App.3d 988.

--- page 96 ---
MAJOR TRANSIT STOP 
Pub. Resources Code, § 21064.3 (“‘Major transit stop’ means a site containing an existing rail transit station, a ferry terminal 
served by either a bus or rail transit service, or the intersection of two or more major bus routes with a frequency of service 
interval of 15 minutes or less during the morning and afternoon peak commute periods.”). 
 
HIGH QUALITY TRANSIT CORRIDOR 
Pub. Resources Code, § 21155 (“For purposes of this section, a high-quality transit corridor means a corridor with fixed route bus 
service with service intervals no longer than 15 minutes during peak commute hours.”). 
 
FAIR ARGUMENT 
A fair argument must be supported by substantial evidence that the project may have a significant impact on the environment.  
The fair argument must be based on the whole record before the lead agency. The fair argument standard entails a strong 
presumption in favor of requiring full EIRs. The presumption is embodied in numerous provisions, which require that if a project 
is not exempt and may cause a potential adverse environmental impact, the lead agency must prepare an EIR.13 It takes only one 
piece of substantial evidence showing that a project may have a significant adverse impact to require preparation of a full EIR 
under the fair argument standard, even if other and more voluminous contrary evidence exists.14Given this very low threshold, 
there is much less risk of losing a CEQA challenge if an EIR is prepared from the outset for big or controversial projects.

--- page 97 ---
Attachment B: OPR Transportation Projects List

--- page 98 ---
Project types that would likely lead to a measurable and substantial increase in vehicle travel generally include:   
• 
Addition of through lanes on existing or new highways, including general purpose lanes, HOV lanes, peak period 
lanes, auxiliary lanes, or lanes through grade-separated interchanges. 
Projects that would not likely lead to a substantial or measurable increase in vehicle travel, and therefore generally 
should not require an induced travel analysis, include:   
• 
Rehabilitation, maintenance, replacement, safety, and repair projects designed to improve the condition of 
existing transportation assets (e.g., highways; roadways; bridges; culverts; Transportation Management System 
field elements such as cameras, message signs, detection, or signals; tunnels; transit systems; and assets that 
serve bicycle and pedestrian facilities) and that do not add additional motor vehicle capacity  
• 
Roadside safety devices or hardware installation such as median barriers and guardrails 
• 
Roadway shoulder enhancements to provide “breakdown space,” dedicated space for use only by transit 
vehicles, to provide bicycle access, or to otherwise improve safety, but which will not be used as automobile 
vehicle travel lanes  
• 
Addition of an auxiliary lane of less than one mile in length designed to improve roadway safety  
• 
Installation, removal, or reconfiguration of traffic lanes that are not for through traffic, such as left, right, and U-
turn pockets, two-way left turn lanes, or emergency breakdown lanes that are not utilized as through lanes  
• 
Addition of roadway capacity on local or collector streets provided the project also substantially improves 
conditions for pedestrians, cyclists, and, if applicable, transit  
• 
Conversion of existing general purpose lanes (including ramps) to managed lanes or transit lanes, or changing 
lane management in a manner that would not substantially increase vehicle travel  
• 
Addition of a new lane that is permanently restricted to use only by transit vehicles  
• 
Reduction in number of through lanes  
• 
Grade separation to separate vehicles from rail, transit, pedestrians or bicycles, or to replace a lane in order to 
separate preferential vehicles (e.g., HOV, HOT, or trucks) from general vehicles  
• 
Installation, removal, or reconfiguration of traffic control devices, including Transit Signal Priority (TSP) features  
• 
Installation of traffic metering systems, detection systems, cameras, changeable message signs and other 
electronics designed to optimize vehicle, bicycle, or pedestrian flow  
• 
Timing of signals to optimize vehicle, bicycle, or pedestrian flow   
• 
Installation of roundabouts or traffic circles  
• 
Installation or reconfiguration of traffic calming devices  
• 
Adoption of or increase in tolls  
• 
Addition of tolled lanes, where tolls are sufficient to mitigate VMT increase  
• 
Initiation of new transit service  
• 
Conversion of streets from one-way to two-way operation with no net increase in number of traffic lanes  
• 
Removal or relocation of off-street or on-street parking spaces  
• 
Adoption or modification of on-street parking or loading restrictions (including meters, time limits, accessible 
spaces, and preferential/reserved parking permit programs)  
• 
Addition of traffic wayfinding signage  
• 
Rehabilitation and maintenance projects that do not add motor vehicle capacity  
• 
Addition of new or enhanced bike or pedestrian facilities on existing streets/highways or within existing public 
rights-of-way  
• 
Addition of Class I bike paths, trails, multi-use paths, or other off-road facilities that serve non-motorized travel  
• 
Installation of publicly available alternative fuel/charging infrastructure  
• 
Addition of passing lanes, truck climbing lanes, or truck brake-check lanes in rural areas that do not increase 
overall vehicle capacity along the corridor

--- page 99 ---
Attachment C: VMT Maps

--- page 100 ---
ß/
101
∙
þ
82
∙
þ
35
∙
þ
92
§¨¦
280
13.9
13.8
20
14.5
14.2
16.9
13.4
14.3
18.1
14.1
14.1
12
13.5
12.2
19.8
16.2
16.7
15.9
13.1
19.9
13.4
16.9
11.3
21.5
0.3
12.7
17
17.2
13
16.9
17.4
11.6
16.6
15.2
12.4
15.6
17.2
18.3
13.8
14.6
13
12.5
12.8
12.8
17.6
12.2
15.7
15.3
17.5
14.3
14.8
15
14.2
16.5
23.3
19.7
13.8
14.1
17.2
19
0.3
11.7
17.6
15.6
18.8
12.2
16.4
11.5
10.6
16.1
17.7
13.9
18.8
17.9
14.1
15.3
15.5
11
7.2
17.9
18.3
14.5
18.3
20
15.1
16.1
14.6
15.7
7
15.9
0.1
14.7
18.7
16.6
14.4
17.3
19.5
13.1
12.7
15.5
16.8
15.5
19.1
13
15.1
13.6
17.5
14.6
16.9
18.5
20.2
21
15.4
14.3
15.5
11.8
15.6
13.6
15.7
16.5
15.2
5.6
14.8
13.8
17.3
20.1
20
14.8
13.2
17.6
14.9
15.5
17.7
17.9
17.6
18.9
17.8
14.9
16.2
15.6
13.8
17.4
17.9
14
13.4
19.5
16.3
18.5
15.7
16.7
13.7
23.9
15.7
17.9
22.5
15.1
16.6
0.1
14.2
20.9
18.7
14.3
14.4
0.1
16.9
13.5
20.1
18.6
15.7
15.9
16.9
14.5
18.4
15.3
17.4
11.5
16.9
15.6
15.7
16.7
14.3
14.6
15.8
13.4
13.1
12.9
13.8
13.6
9.4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
H:\24\24441 - City of San Mateo Transportation On-Call\GIS\TAZ Households_Screening.mxd   Date: 6/12/2020
Average VMT per Capita by TAZ
VMT per Capita Labeled
City of San Mateo, CA
[
0
3,900Feet
Average VMT/ Capita by TAZ
< 13.1 - Below Target VMT (County
Average - 15%)
13.1 - 15.5 - Target VMT (County
Average- 15%) to County Average
> 15.5 - Above County Average
No Data
City Boundary
High Quality Transit Area
Priority Development Area
*Average VMT per Capita by TAZ for San Mateo County is 15.5

--- page 101 ---
ß/
101
∙
þ
82
∙
þ
35
∙
þ
92
§¨¦
280
3040
3061
3071
3130
2980
3002
3009
1957
3022
3102
3027
3076
3117
3041
3017
2977
3086
3079
3144
3116
1540
1613
1974
3065
3140
3093
1962
3023
2964
3084
1981
3134
3150
1961
3021
2971
2975
3139
3059
3047
3129
1983
3055
1976
2967
2985
3074
3037
3066
2988
3124
3029
1985
2981
1538
2978
2968
3132
3020
1979
3075
1547
3003
3043
3100
3114
2974
2983
3098
3015
2961
3030
2990
2979
1977
2995
3064
3097
3136
3039
3008
3122
3092
3073
3034
3051
1960
3067
2986
3087
3014
3154
3108
3125
2991
3105
3126
3142
3121
2984
1965
3128
3137
1956
3070
1611
3058
1546
3133
3138
2976
3081
3082
2963
3005
3080
3028
2987
3025
3155
1536
1542
3094
2989
3052
3077
1959
3006
1539
3088
3036
1537
3024
3053
2970
3019
3033
3011
3123
1544
3157
1990
3054
3110
2996
3083
3101
3068
3031
3049
3153
2973
3035
1550
1953
3013
1978
3149
3106
3007
3090
1545
3012
3095
3000
3156
3026
3089
3091
3118
3032
3038
1610
3063
3050
1554
3131
3085
3099
1984
1955
2997
3056
1963
3135
2965
1958
1980
1991
2982
1548
2992
3044
3152
3069
1982
3010
3112
3115
3078
3072
3057
3148
3018
2993
2999
3001
2960
3045
3147
3145
3127
1549
2966
3151
3120
3119
3141
3143
3146
1964
2994
3060
3062
3046
3042
3048
3107
3109
3103
3104
3113
3111
3004
3016
2001
2003
1561
2006
2005
1600
1621
1564
1523
2969
2998
1646
1524
2962
2972
H:\24\24441 - City of San Mateo Transportation On-Call\GIS\TAZ Households_Screening_Labeled.mxd   Date: 6/12/2020
Average VMT per Capita by TAZ
TAZ Number Labeled
City of San Mateo, CA
[
0
3,900Feet
Average VMT/ Capita by TAZ
< 13.1 - Below Target VMT (County
Average - 15%)
13.1 - 15.5 - Target VMT (County
Average- 15%) to County Average
> 15.5 - Above County Average
No Data
City Boundary
High Quality Transit Area
Priority Development Area
*Average VMT per Capita by TAZ for San Mateo County is 15.5

--- page 102 ---
ß/
101
∙
þ
82
∙
þ
35
∙
þ
92
§¨¦
280
14.8
14.4
13.7
25
15.5
30.7
16.1
16.3
27.3
19.3
17.4
14.4
35.1
16.5
16.5
15.6
28
16
16.4
14.7
24.5
18.3
18.3
14.1
15.1
31.9
25.9
25
26.2
20.6
32
24
26.5
17.8
24.1
36
14.9
20.2
16
30.5
26.8
25.2
15.7
17.8
26.3
13.3
31.2
14.9
21.1
29.2
28.8
27.7
50.6
25.2
25.8
15.9
23.7
24.2
17.6
13.7
29.6
15.3
30.5
26.3
23.5
24.6
24.7
26.8
24.8
30.3
21.2
15.7
15.2
15.8
19
14.6
27.7
18.1
15
17.1
30.9
29
12.9
17.3
19.6
28.3
14.1
15.6
18.9
27.8
24.1
26.6
16.9
19.4
15.9
15
32.3
35.6
27.5
14.4
26.8
17.9
14.8
24.6
17.3
47.9
24.7
28.2
24.9
15.6
15.8
17.4
16
17.1
33.8
16.2
19.3
26.7
28.8
29.8
16.2
15.1
15.3
17.8
15.4
24.5
18.6
30.5
25.7
16.6
15.2
17.9
26.3
28.1
16.8
20.1
32.3
28
16.3
28.5
15.6
25.3
13.7
16.4
17.2
25.3
21.4
22.2
27.5
26.9
16.7
24.8
26.4
25
27.6
27.2
15.6
22.9
25.2
46.3
27.6
15.8
16
16.5
17.9
28.1
15.5
39.2
19
24.2
15.4
16.9
28.6
25.9
29.5
27.7
17.1
19.5
26.8
17.8
30.7
15.2
26
16.1
16
23.7
15.1
34.6
29
15.3
18.6
14.8
14.2
26.1
14.8
17.4
16.4
28.2
32
17.5
26.7
16.3
15.5
17.9
27.5
23.7
29.8
15.3
15
15.1
31.5
16
16.1
14.7
13.7
27.9
15.2
28.4
25.9
15.5
18.6
15.2
15.3
15.6
15.5
16.4
16.4
10.9
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
H:\24\24441 - City of San Mateo Transportation On-Call\GIS\TAZ Employees_Screening.mxd   Date: 6/12/2020
Average VMT per Employee by TAZ
VMT per Employee Labeled
City of San Mateo, CA
[
0
3,900 Feet
Average VMT/ Employee by TAZ
< 15.3 - Below Target VMT (County
Average - 15%)
15.3 - 18.0 - Target VMT (County Average-
15%) to County Average
> 18.0 - Above County Average
No Data
City Boundary
High Quality Transit Area
Priority Development Area
*Average VMT per Employee by TAZ for San Mateo County is 18.0

--- page 103 ---
ß/
101
∙
þ
82
∙
þ
35
∙
þ
92
§¨¦
280
3040
3061
3071
3130
2980
3002
3009
1957
3022
3102
3027
3076
3117
3041
3017
2977
3086
3079
3144
3116
1540
1613
1974
3065
3140
3093
1962
3023
2964
3084
1981
3134
3150
1961
3021
2971
2975
3139
3059
3047
3129
1983
3055
1976
2967
2985
3074
3037
3066
2988
3124
3029
1985
2981
1538
2978
2968
3132
3020
1979
3075
1547
3003
3043
3100
3114
2974
2983
3098
3015
2961
3030
2990
2979
1977
2995
3064
3097
3136
3039
3008
3122
3092
3073
3034
3051
1960
3067
2986
3087
3014
3154
3108
3125
2991
3105
3126
3142
3121
2984
1965
3128
3137
1956
3070
1611
3058
1546
3133
3138
2976
3081
3082
2963
3005
3080
3028
2987
3025
3155
1536
1542
3094
2989
3052
3077
1959
3006
1539
3088
3036
1537
3024
3053
2970
3019
3033
3011
3123
1544
3157
1990
3054
3110
2996
3083
3101
3068
3031
3049
3153
2973
3035
1550
1953
3013
1978
3149
3106
3007
3090
1545
3012
3095
3000
3156
3026
3089
3091
3118
3032
3038
1610
3063
3050
1554
3131
3085
3099
1984
1955
2997
3056
1963
3135
2965
1958
1980
1991
2982
1548
2992
3044
3152
3069
1982
3010
3112
3115
3078
3072
3057
3148
3018
2993
2999
3001
2960
3045
3147
3145
3127
1549
2966
3151
3120
3119
3141
3143
3146
1964
2994
3060
3062
3046
3042
3048
3107
3109
3103
3104
3113
3111
3004
3016
2001
2003
1561
2006
2005
1600
1621
1564
1523
2969
2998
1646
1524
2962
2972
H:\24\24441 - City of San Mateo Transportation On-Call\GIS\TAZ Employees_Screening_Labeled.mxd   Date: 6/12/2020
Average VMT per Employee by TAZ
TAZ Number Labeled
City of San Mateo, CA
[
0
3,900Feet
Average VMT/ Employee by TAZ
< 15.3 - Below Target VMT (County
Average - 15%)
15.3 - 18.0 - Target VMT (County
Average- 15%) to County Average
> 18.0 - Above County Average
No Data
City Boundary
High Quality Transit Area
Priority Development Area
*Average VMT per Employee by TAZ for San Mateo County is 18.0

--- page 104 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 20-3148
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Rendell Bustos, Interim Senior Planner; Lisa Costa Sanders, Contract Planner
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
June 23 2020 
SUBJECT:
Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #1 MU2 and MU3 Modification Study Session – Design Review Focus (PA-2020-016)
RECOMMENDATION:
That the Planning Commission review the proposed design, receive public comments, and provide input to the applicant 
and staff on two main topics:
1.
Building design
2.
Preliminary requested exceptions to the Design Guidelines
BACKGROUND:
The Bay Meadows Phase II project area is an 83-acre transit-oriented development with a range of land uses, including 
residential, commercial, a private high school, parks, and open space uses, located adjacent to the Hillsdale Caltrain station.  
There are a number of past approvals that provide the framework for the redevelopment of the Bay Meadows Racetrack 
with a transit-oriented development project. 
The Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment contains a development program which provides for a maximum of 
1,250 residential units, 1,250,000 square-feet of office space and 150,000 square-feet of commercial space.  The Phase II 
Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) #1 planning application was approved by the City Council in April 2008 (PA-2007-
054).  The SPAR #1 planning application entitles commercial and residential uses spread over four Mixed-Use (“MU”) blocks, 
from MU1 to MU4. MU4 has completed construction, and MU1 (Bridge Housing Development) is currently under 
construction. This Study Session focuses on the proposed modification to the designs for MU2 and MU3 approved in SPAR 
#1.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
Project Site
The project site consists of two development blocks bound by E. 28th Avenue, Kyne Street, Landing Avenue, and S.  Delaware 
Street, with Derby Avenue bisecting the blocks.  The blocks are identified as Mixed-Use Blocks 2 and 3 (MU2 and MU3) in 
the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan Amendment.  A land use diagram within the Specific Plan Amendment is included in 
Attachment 1 to illustrate the Bay Meadows Phase II layout and land uses. A location map showing the specific project sites 
in their immediate vicinity is included as Attachment 2. 
Proposed Building Program
The previously approved SPAR #1 for MU2 and MU3 included 55,290 square feet of office and retail (also referred to as 
“active uses”) and 164 residential units.  The applicant is requesting a modification to the previously approved SPAR to allow 
317,445 square feet of office and retail/active uses and 57 residential units. The project plans are included as Attachment 3, 
and a comparison of the previously approved and the requested project program is included in Attachment 4.

--- page 105 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
MU2, located on a 1.75-acre site, is proposed with a four-story office and retail building.  The building is proposed with 
190,575 square feet of office and retail/active uses and is within the 55-foot height limit.  The building program includes 
2,100 square feet for a childcare tenant that could serve 26-30 children, with outdoor space facing Landing Green Park, with 
the retail/active use spaces planned along S. Delaware Street.  Parking is located within the first floor of the building and 
three levels below grade with the parking garage entrance and loading area located mid-block along Derby Avenue.  
MU3, located on a 1.51-acre site, is proposed with two buildings, a four-story office and retail building, and a four-story with 
mezzanine residential building.  The office and retail building is proposed with 126,000 square feet and is within the 55-foot 
height limit.  Retail or active use space is proposed along S. Delaware Street.  Parking is provided in two levels below grade 
with the garage entrance and loading area located mid-block on Landing Avenue.  The residential building faces Landing 
Green Park and is proposed with 57 residential units including six affordable units. The buildings are designed with a 
pedestrian passage connecting S. Delaware to W. Kyne Street and Landing Green Park.
It should be noted that the Specific Plan Amendment provides program options, or a range of land-use maximums. See the 
table below, which is noted as Table IV-2 in the Specific Plan Amendment:
The Base Program identifies a maximum of 1,250 residential units, 1,250,000 square-feet of office/commercial, and 
150,000 square-feet of retail floor area. In anticipation of changes in market conditions over the course of the Phase II 
buildout, the Specific Plan Amendment allows the developer some variation in the proportion of these uses. At buildout, 
the developer is required to provide a minimum of 1,000 residential units and 500,000 square-feet of office/commercial 
floor area. The Specific Plan Amendment does identify a minimum retail floor area; however, it does call out specific areas 
in which retail or active uses are to be provided on the ground floor along S. Delaware St. As proposed, the project is 
anticipated to conform to the land use minimums and limits outlined in the Specific Plan, which will be further analyzed in 
the formal planning application.
APPLICABLE CODE AND POLICY REVIEW: 
General Plan & Zoning Code
The General Plan Land Use Designation for MU2 and MU3 is Transit-Oriented Development. In addition, MU2 and MU3 are 
zoned BMSP (Bay Meadows Specific Plan). 
As a project zoned BMSP and within the Phase II area, MU2 and MU3 are subject to the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan 
Amendment, which was approved in 2005. This Specific Plan amended the Bay Meadows Specific Plan originally approved 
in 1997 and serves as a guiding document for the vision, layout, and overarching design principles of the Phase II area. 
Applicable development standards for sites within the Phase II area are found in the Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines 
and Development Standards document approved in 2006. Excerpts of the Design Guidelines and Development Standards 
are included in Attachment 5, which list the applicable design and development criteria specific to MU2 and MU3.
ITEMS FOR PLANNING COMMISSION INPUT:
Building Design
The applicant has proposed to modify the approved, exterior designs of the SPAR #1 application. The proposed office 
buildings at both MU2 and MU3 are designed in a contemporary architectural style with use of glass curtain walls with glazed 
metal paneling on the office floors and glass and architectural concrete elements on the ground floor. The buildings will

--- page 106 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
incorporate wood-like paneling on some of the overhang elements, creating a warm approach to the building. The building 
will be surrounded with landscaped plazas and open spaces. 
As noted above, the proposed MU2 office building includes space for retail/active uses along S. Delaware Street and indoor 
and outdoor space suitable for a childcare tenant along W. Kyne Street.  The building is designed with mid-block step backs 
that serve as a large landscaped courtyard and provides visual relief along the façade.  The building also includes step backs 
at the fourth floor for outdoor terrace space with large eave overhangs.  The proposed MU3 office building is designed with 
similar architectural details as MU2. Both office buildings are oriented toward S. Delaware Street, with massing and entries 
designed to reinforce the rhythm of the buildings on the other side of the street.
The residential building at MU3 has regularly spaced projecting bays, in between which the building steps back to create 
space for private balconies. The exterior is proposed with smooth finish white stucco and gray-toned siding panels.  Metal 
awnings and shading devices are included at the building entrance and above the windows. A roof deck is proposed with a 
central roof deck pavilion included as an architectural feature. A required mid-block passage runs east-west through the 
center of MU3, creating a street-level pedestrian connection from S. Delaware Street to W. Kyne Street. In addition, there is 
a mid-block passage running north-south between the office and residential buildings on MU3.
When the formal application is submitted, the City’s design review consultant will review the proposed design for 
consistency with the Specific Plan Amendment and Design Guidelines, and will address any concerns expressed by the 
Planning Commission. Changes to the design as a result of the design review consultant and the Planning Commission will 
be reviewed again by the Planning Commission in a public hearing at a later date.
Exceptions to Design Guidelines
The Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines and Development Standards document allows for requests to deviate from the 
Design Guidelines. The Design Guidelines state that each applicant shall demonstrate how the design is consistent with the 
overall intent of the Design Guidelines and Specific Plan Amendment. The Design Guidelines also states that projects may 
be approved even if specific design or development standards are not met. It goes on to clarify that certain standards are 
mandatory and certain are preferred but not mandatory. In the past, all original Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR applications 
were approved with some exceptions to both “mandatory” and “preferred” design standards.
The original exceptions approved for the MU2 and MU2 buildings are included in Attachment 6. At this time the applicant 
has provided a list of anticipated exceptions to the Design Guidelines, which is included in Attachment 7. Some of the 
anticipated exceptions are carried over from the SPAR #1 application. The requested exceptions include deviations to 
building placement, curb cuts, and massing. These exceptions will be further evaluated by staff in the formal planning 
application.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
The applicant conducted a virtual neighborhood outreach meeting to review the revised design on June 2, 2020. The 
meeting was attended by 21 members of the public. Public comments included questions relating to the shift to larger 
office space and less residential units, and request for additional and higher quality retail uses to serve the nearby 
residents.  A summary of the neighborhood meeting submitted by the applicant are included as Attachment 8.  Written 
public comments that have been submitted to staff are included as Attachment 9.
NEXT STEPS:
Following this Study Session, the applicant and project architect will have the opportunity to revise the design based on 
feedback given by the public and the Planning Commission. As proposed, the project is anticipated to require a Site Plan and 
Architectural Review (SPAR) Modification planning application, which is reviewed and decided by the Planning Commission.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21065, the Study Session is not a project subject to the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) because no action is being taken. An environmental document will be prepared as part of 
the formal planning application in pursuant to CEQA.

--- page 107 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED:
In accordance with Government Code section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, this
hearing was noticed to the following parties at least ten days in advance of the Planning Commission meeting:

Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site;

The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects;

The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and,

The interested parties list which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Specific Plan Land Use Diagram
Att 2 – Location Map  
Att 3 – Project Plans
Att 4 – Project Data
Att 5 – Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines and Development Standards Excerpts
Att 6 – SPAR #1 Design Guidelines Exceptions List
Att 7 – Design Guidelines Exceptions List
Att 8 – Neighborhood Meeting Summary
Att 9 – Public Comments
STAFF CONTACT
Rendell Bustos, Interim Senior Planner rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org (650) 522-7211
Lisa Costa Sanders, Contract Planner lcostasanders@cityofsanmateo.org (650) 333-0248

--- page 108 ---
November 7, 2005
I - 17
Bay Meadows Specific Plan Amendment - Phase II Overview
In addition to these maximum values, the Specific Plan Amendment requires that if a devel-
oper has elected to develop the site, a minimum of 1,000 residential units (corresponding to 
approximately 32 units/acre if applied to the Residential Parcel), and a minimum of 500,000 s.f. 
of office/commercial space, must be provided at buildout. Any uses converted from residential 
to office/commercial, or from office/commercial to residential, may only be located on Blocks 
where those uses are permitted, as shown below and in the Land Use Plan, Figure IV-4.
Mixed Use
(Commercial, Residential
and Retail permitted)
Commercial/Retail only
Residential
(Commercial Uses not
permitted except for Retail on 
Blocks RES 7 and RES 9)
Primary Commercial/Retail
(35 residential units/block 
max.)
Commercial/
Retail Only
Parks
Commercial with optional Retail
Predominantly Commercial
Commercial, Residential, or Retail
Residential
Required Ground Floor Retail
or active use
Permitted Ground Floor Retail
or active use
Easements
FIGURE I-18
Land Use Plan
STA 1
MU 1*
STA 2
STA 3
STA 4
STA 5
RES 9
RES 7
RES 8
RES 6
RES 5
RES 4
RES 1
MU 2*
MU 3
MU 4
RES 2
RES 3
* Hotel Permitted on MU 1 and MU 2 only.

--- page 109 ---
LOCATION MAP 
 
 
 
PA-2020-016 
BAY MEADOWS PHASE II SPAR #1 M2 AND MU3 MODIFICATION 
 
Address: 
No Site Addresses 
Parcel Number: 
040-031-210, -220, -230, -240

--- page 110 ---
MIXED USE (COMMERCIAL, 
RESIDENTIAL, RETAIL)
PERMITTED FLOOR AREA RATIO/ FAR:
2.5
2.5 
HEIGHT:
55'-0" MAXIMUM (EXTG 
GRADE TO T/ OF PLATE)
VARIES, 55'-0" MAX 
(SEE ELEVATIONS) 
ALLOWED/ REQUIRED
PROPOSED
PERMITTED FLOOR AREA (SQ FT)
191,445 SQ FT
MIXED USE 
(COMMERCIAL, RETAIL)
191,445 SQ FT
SITE ADDRESS:
MU2 PROJECT DEVELOPMENT DATA
BAY MEADOWS SPECIFIC PLAN
SITE AREA (ACRES) : 1.758
SITE AREA (SF) 76,578
ZONING CLASSIFICATIONS:
APN: 040031210, 040031220
USE:
PARKING:
COMMERCIAL USE: MAX. PARKING 
RATIO 2.75 - 3.25 PER 1,000 SF
RETAIL USE: PARKING RATIO OF UP TO 
4 SPACES PER 1,000 SF.
ADA:  2% OF TOTAL FOR 501-1000 
TOTAL NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES 
PROVIDED. ACCESSIBLE VAN PARKING : 
FOR EVERY 6 ADA PARKING SPACES, AT 
LEAST 1 SHALL BE A VAN PARKING 
SPACE.
EV (OFFICE) REQUIREMENT: 
1)  201 AND OVER, 6% OF TOTAL PER 
CGC TABLE 5.106.3.3
2)  5% LEVEL 2 EVSE, 10% FUTURE 
EVSE PER CITY OF SAN MATEO 
CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL CODE 
23.70.040
CLEAN AIR PARKING:
201 AND OVER, AT LEAST 8% OF TOTAL 
PER CGC TABLE 5.106.5.2 
REGULAR STALLS: 298
COMPACT: 168 
ADA: 10
ADA VAN: 2
EV: 21
EV-AMULATORY: 3
EV ADA STANDARD: 3
EV ADA VAN: 1
FUTURE EV:57
CLEAN AIR: 45 REQ.
MIXED USE (COMMERCIAL, 
RESIDENTIAL, RETAIL)
PERMITTED FLOOR AREA RATIO/ FAR:
3.0
2.85 
HEIGHT:
55'-0" MAXIMUM (EXTG 
GRADE TO T/ OF PLATE)
VARIES, 55'-0" MAX 
(SEE ELEVATIONS) 
ALLOWED/ REQUIRED
PROPOSED
PERMITTED FLOOR AREA (SQ FT)
126,000 SQ FT
MIXED USE (COMMERCIAL, 
RESIDENTIAL, RETAIL)
126,000 SQ FT
SITE ADDRESS:
MU3 PROJECT DEVELOPMENT DATA
BAY MEADOWS SPECIFIC PLAN
SITE AREA (ACRES) : 1.511
ZONING CLASSIFICATIONS:
APN: 040031230, 040031240
USE:
OFFICE SITE AREA (SF) : 42,000
PERMITTED FLOOR AREA (SQ FT)
71,475 SQ FT
61,740 SQ FT
RESIDENTIAL SITE AREA (SF) : 23,819 SF
PARKING:
COMMERCIAL USE: MAX. PARKING RATIO 
2.75 - 3.25 PER 1,000 SF
RETAIL USE: PARKING RATIO OF UP TO 4 
SPACES PER 1,000 SF.
ACCESSIBLE PARKING : FOR 201 TO 300 
PARKING SPACES, 7 MIN.  REQUIRED 
ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACES.
ACCESSIBLE VAN PARKING : FOR EVERY 6 
ADA PARKING SPACES, AT LEAST 1 SHALL 
BE A VAN PARKING SPACE.  
EV (OFFICE) REQUIREMENT: 
1)  201 AND OVER, 6% OF TOTAL PER CGC 
TABLE 5.106.3.3
2)  5% Level 2 EVSE, 10% FUTURE EVSE 
PER CITY OF SAN MATEO CHARTER AND 
MUNICIPAL CODE 23.70.040
CLEAN AIR PARKING:
201 AND OVER, AT LEAST 8% OF TOTAL 
PER CGC TABLE 5.106.5.2 
TOTAL STALLS: 192
REGULAR STALLS: 133
COMPACT: 25 
ADA: 4
ADA VAN: 1
EV: 26
EV-AMULATORY: 1
EV ADA STANDARD: 1
EV ADA VAN: 1
FUTURE EV: 26
CLEAN AIR: 15 REQ.
SUBJECT TO SPAR REVIEW:
1.0 PER STUDIO AND ONE BEDROOM;  2.0 
PER TWO BEDROOM
ACCESSIBLE PARKING* : 5% OF THE 
PARKING SPACES.  ACCESSIBLE VAN 
PARKING : ONE IN EVERY 8 ACCESSIBLE 
SPACES, BUT NOT LESS THAN ONE, SHALL 
BE VAN ACCESSIBLE. 
MULTIFAMILY EV CHARGING SPACES REQ:
1) FOR 51 - 75 STALLS, 4 EV STALLS REQ. 
PER CGC TABLE 4.106.4.3.1.
2)  15% OF TOTAL, MIN. 1, CAPABLE OF 
SUPPORTING FUTURE EVSE.
* BASED ON UNASSIGNED PARKING
**TANDEM PARKING COUNT AS 1 PARKING 
STALL
TOTAL STALLS: 68
TANDEM: 9 **
REGULAR STALLS: 38
COMPACT: 8
ADA STANDARD: 2
ADA VAN: 1
EV REGULAR: 8
EV ADA STANDARD: 1
EV VAN: 1
RESIDENTIAL PARKING:
563
260
OFFICE PARKING:
DENSITY
COMBINED BLOCK AREA RES + OFFICE 
(SQ FT) : 65,819
50 DU / ACRE
37.71 DU / ACRE
PERMITTED FLOOR AREA (SQ FT)
197,457 SQ FT
187,740 SQ FT
MU3 MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT:
MU3 OFFICE DEVELOPMENT:
CODES AND REGULATIONS:
APPLICABLE CODES AND AND REGULATIONS:
2019 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING CODE
AMERICAN WITH DISABILITIES ACT ACCESSIBILITY AND GUIDELINES
NFPA AS REFERENCED IN CALIFORNIA BUILDING AND FIRE CODE.
CITY OF SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE
0
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
1'
1'
0'
MU2 AND MU3
1/8" = 1'-0"
G-00.00
04/10/2020
COVER PAGE
PROJECT DIRECTORY
OWNER
Bay Meadows Main Track Investors
Four Embarcadero Center
San Francisco, CA 94111
OWNER'S REPRESENTATIVE
Wilson Meany
Four Embarcadero Center, Suite 3330
San Francisco, CA 94111
Phone: 415.905.5300
Email: www.wilsonmeany.com 
Contact: Emily Lesk
ARCHITECT - OFFICE
Perkins & Will
2 Bryant Street, 3rd Floor
San Francisco, CA 94105
Phone: 415.856.3000
Email: www.perkinswill.com
Contact: Daniel Lam
ARCHITECT - RESIDENTIAL
Hart Howerton
1 Union Street, Third Floor
San Francisco, CA 94111 
Phone: 415.439.2200
Email: www.harthowerton.com
Contact: Christopher Pizzi
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT
CMG LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
444 Bryant Street, 
San Francisco, CA 94107
Phone: 415.495.3070
Email: www.cmgsite.com
Contact: Nico Wright
Sheet Index-PPA SUBMITTAL
SHEET NUMBER
SHEET NAME
PPA  |  02.18.2020 
PPA RESUBMITTAL | 04.10.2020
G-00.00 COVER PAGE
X
X
G-00.01 EXISTING SITE PLAN
X
X
A1.01
OVERALL SITE PLAN
X
X
O-A1.01 MU2 OFFICE PARKING - B3 PLAN
X
O-A1.02 MU2 OFFICE PARKING - B2 PLAN
X
O-A1.03 MU2 OFFICE PARKING - B1 PLAN
X
O-A1.04 MU2 OFFICE - LEVEL 01  PLAN
X
O-A1.05 MU2 OFFICE - LEVEL 02  PLAN
X
O-A1.06 MU2 OFFICE - LEVEL 03  PLAN
X
O-A1.07 MU2 OFFICE - LEVEL 04  PLAN
X
O-A1.08 MU2 OFFICE - LOWER ROOF  PLAN
X
O-A1.51 MU3 OFFICE PARKING- B2 PLAN
X
O-A1.52 MU3 OFFICE PARKING- B1 PLAN
X
O-A1.53 MU3 OFFICE- LEVEL 01 PLAN
X
O-A1.54 MU3 OFFICE- LEVEL 02 PLAN
X
O-A1.55 MU3 OFFICE- LEVEL 03 PLAN
X
O-A1.56 MU3 OFFICE- LEVEL 04 PLAN
X
O-A1.57 MU3 OFFICE - LOWER ROOF PLAN
X
O-A2.01 MU2 OFFICE -- BUILDING ELEVATIONS
X
X
O-A2.02 MU2 OFFICE - BUILDING ELEVATIONS
X
X
O-A2.03 MU3 OFFICE - BUILDING ELEVATIONS
X
O-A2.04 MU3 OFFICE - BUILDING ELEVATIONS
X
O-A2.51 MU3 OFFICE - BUILDING ELEVATIONS
X
O-A2.52 MU3 OFFICE - BUILDING ELEVATIONS
X
O-A2.61 MU3 - BUILDING SECTIONS
X
R-A2.00 PARKING LEVEL -B1 PLAN
X
R-A2.01 GROUND FLOOR PLAN
X
R-A2.02 SECOND FLOOR PLAN
X
R-A2.03 THIRD FLOOR PLAN
X
R-A2.04 FOURTH FLOOR PLAN
X
R-A2.05 FOURTH FLOOR LOFT PLAN
X
R-A2.06 ROOF PLAN
X
R-A3.01 RES - ENLARGED BUILDING ELEVATIONS
X
X
R-A3.02 RES - ENLARGED BUILDING ELEVATIONS
X
R-A3.03 RES - ENLARGED BUILDING ELEVATIONS
X
R-A3.04 RES - ENLARGED BUILDING ELEVATIONS
X
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
A
MU2 OFFICE VIEW FROM CORNER OF 28TH AVE AND DELAWARE ST
MU3 OFFICE VIEW FROM CORNER OF DELAWARE ST AND DERBY AVE
MU3 MULTI-FAMILY VIEW FROM CORNER OF WEST KYNE STREET AND DERBY AVE

--- page 111 ---
MU2
MU3
WEST KYNE STREET
WEST KYNE STREET
DERBY AVENUE
SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
LANDING AVENUE
EAST 28TH AVENUE
0
50
25
100'
EXISTING SIDEWALK
IN PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
MID-BLOCK PASSAGE
EASEMENT TO BE
ADJUSTED AS SHOWN
ON SHEET A1.01
EXISTING LOT LINE TO
BE ADJUSTED AS
SHOWN ON SHEET A1.01
EXISTING LOT LINE
TO REMAIN IN PLACE
10' SETBACK
10' SETBACK
10' SETBACK
10' SETBACK
COVENANT TO BE RECORDED HOLDING
LOTS 1 & 2, BLOCK 11 AS ONE PARCEL FOR
PURPOSE OF CREATING A SINGLE
BUILDING SITE, WITH FURTHER TERMS AND
CONDITIONS SET FORTH IN THE COVENANT
LOT 1
LOT 2
PROPOSED LOT LINE
PROPOSED MID BLOCK
PASSAGE EASEMENT
G-00.01
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
04/10/2020
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION SUBMITTAL
EXISTING SITE PLAN
A
MU2 AND MU3
N
ADJUSTED LOT LINE
ADJUSTED MID BLOCK
PASSAGE EASEMENT

--- page 112 ---
WILSON

ijl HART HOWERTON

Perkins &Will

Project No: 491910.000

WEST KYNE STREET A,
ne a a ee

‘1 Lana bh A &
oy - fart | Jl g ae
as MU2 OFFICE = |—— 2a
aps Er Ser as Z
ae ae ud w
g fe)
a a PB g
a; ti ° ° ° ° ° 9 ° ° 2 Q wi z
: : ie ae o 62
ey ee
SOUTH DELAWARE STREET SOUTH DELAWARE STREET
”
oO s
F Zs
; QO < os
2 lu 5 =
qf sis.
LEGEND nN Si
4 BUILDING PRIMARY ENTRANCE OVERALL SITE PLAN o & 7
4 GARAGE ENTRY ib D> <2.
4 SERVICE ENTRY => m Zi

—Torowexson =| PROPERTY LINE NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
-------- 10 FT BUILDING SETBACK ada

-------- ADJUSTED MID-BLOCK PASSAGE EASEMENT
A1.01



--- page 113 ---
RAMP UP
16.67%
8.33%
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
C
FEVCS
C
FEVCS
C
FEVCS
C
FEVCS
C
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
3 AT 8'-0" = 24'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
2AT9'-0"=18'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 8'-0" = 24'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
1'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
25'-0"
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
9'-0"
1'-0"
9'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
2AT9'-0"=18'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
2AT9'-0"=18'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 8'-0" = 24'-0"
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
3 AT 8'-0" = 24'-0"
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
3 AT 8'-0" = 24'-0"
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
2AT9'-0"=18'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
2AT9'-0"=18'-0"EQ.
EQ.
9'-0" EQ.
EQ.
24'-0"
2'-2"
18'-0"
2'-0"
26'-0"
18'-0"
2'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
2'-0"
26'-0"
R2'-0"
R2'-0"
R2'-0"
R2'-0"
R2'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
13
12
10
9.2
6
5
4
3
2
1
B
C
D
E
G
H
11
6.4
8
7
9
A
SUMP
ELEC.
RM 2
PARKING
E.8
F.8
G.8
STAIR 1
ELEC.
RM 1
RAMP WIDTH
24' - 0"
PROPERTY LINE
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
0
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
1'
1'
0'
As indicated
O-A1.01
MU2
04/10/2020
MU2 OFFICE PARKING - B3 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 OFFICE PARKING - B3 PLAN

--- page 114 ---
RAMP DN
RAMP UP
8.33%
16.67%
8.33%
16.67%
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
C
FEVCS
C
FEVCS
C
FEVCS
C
FEVCS
C
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
3 AT 8'-0" = 24'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
2AT9'-0"=18'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 8'-0" = 24'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
1'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
25'-0"
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
9'-0"
1'-0"
9'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
2AT9'-0"=18'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
2AT9'-0"=18'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 8'-0" = 24'-0"
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
3 AT 8'-0" = 24'-0"
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
3 AT 8'-0" = 24'-0"
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
2AT9'-0"=18'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
2AT9'-0"=18'-0"EQ.
EQ.
9'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
24'-0"
2'-2"
18'-0"
2'-0"
26'-0"
18'-0"
2'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
2'-0"
26'-0"
R2'-0"
R2'-0"
R2'-0"
R2'-0"
R2'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
13
12
10
9.2
6
5
4
3
2
1
B
C
D
E
G
H
11
6.4
8
7
9
A
ELEC.
RM 2
E.8
F.8
G.8
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
ELEC.
RM 1
RAMP WIDTH
24' - 0"
PROPERTY LINE
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
0
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
1'
1'
0'
As indicated
O-A1.02
MU2
04/10/2020
MU2 OFFICE PARKING - B2 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 OFFICE PARKING - B2 PLAN

--- page 115 ---
RAMP DN
RAMP UP
8.33%
16.67%
8.33%
16.67%
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO PARKING
V
EV-AMB
EV-VA
EV-A
EV-A
EV-A
EV-AMB
EV-AMB
EVCS
V
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
C
FEVCS
C
FEVCS
C
FEVCS
C
FEVCS
C
FEVCS
C
FEVCS
C
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
3 AT 8'-0" = 24'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
2AT9'-0"=18'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
1'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
25'-0"
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
9'-0"
1'-0"
9'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
2AT9'-0"=18'-0"EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
8'-0"
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
8'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
3 AT 8'-0" = 24'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
3 AT 8'-0" = 24'-0"
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
2AT9'-0"=18'0"
EQ.
EQ.
8'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
18'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
9'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
24'-0"
2'-2"
18'-0"
2'-0"
26'-0"
18'-0"
2'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
2'-0"
26'-0"
R2'-0"
R2'-0"
R2'-0"
R2'-0"
R2'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0" 5'-0"
9'-0" 5'-0"
12'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0" 5'-0" 9'-0"
12'-0"
5'-0" 9'-0"
10'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0" 5'-0" 9'-0"
9'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
12'-0"
5'-0" 9'-0"
9'-0" 5'-0" 9'-0"
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 8'-0"=24'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
13
12
10
9.2
6
5
4
3
2
1
B
C
D
E
G
H
11
6.4
8
7
9
A
MPOE
WATER METER
BOH STORAGE
ELEC RM
2
E.8
F.8
G.8
STAIR 1
ELEC RM
1
STAIR 2
RAMP WIDTH
24' - 0"
PROPERTY LINE
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
0
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
1'
1'
0'
As indicated
O-A1.03
MU2
04/10/2020
MU2 OFFICE PARKING - B1 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 OFFICE PARKING - B1 PLAN

--- page 116 ---
RAMP DN
8.33%
16.67%
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
FEVCS
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
9'-0"
8'-0"
8'-0"
3 AT 8'-0" = 24'-0"
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
2AT9'-0"=18'-0"
81/2"
7'-31/2"
18'-0"
24'-0"
28'-0"
18'-0"
13'-111/8"
25'-0"
25'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
6"
6"
3"
4"
4"
5"
4"
5"
2"
3"
4"
3"
5"
5"
5"
5"
5"
4"
10"
6"
8"
8"
8"
4"
4"
4"
4"
4"
2"
2"
2"
v
e
sl
sl
sl
sl
sl
c
sl
sl
sl
sl
sl
sl
sl
sl
sd
sd
sd
sd
sd
sd
sd
ts
ts
sl
ts
c
up
u
up
up
sl
u
e
u
c
ev
sl
ts
ts
up
ts
c
up
u
ts
sd
w
sl
sl
sl
c
ts
Top 12" Vertical PVC: 112.73
Top 12" Vertical PVC: 112.72
sd
S
D
S
S
D
13
12
10
9.2
6
5
4
3
2
1
B
C
D
E
G
H
11
6.4
8
7
TRANSFORMER
MAIN
ELEC.
9
A
PARKING
ACTIVE USE SPACE
ACTIVE USE SPACE
113' - 3 1/2"
114' - 3 1/4"
E.8
F.8
G.8
STAIR 1
STAIR 3
113' - 1 1/4"
113' - 4 1/4"
113' - 5 1/4"
113' - 3 1/2"
113' - 3 1/2"
STAIR 2
IDF RM 1
ELEC.
RM 1
BIKE
STORAGE
OPEN
OFFICE
PROPOSED
6' - 4"
PROPOSED
18' - 7 3/4"
PROPOSED
14' - 10"
GAS 
METER
1
O-A2.02
2
O-A2.02
1
O-A2.01
2
O-A2.01
MIN. 80%
WITHIN 10' - 0" OF
SETBACK
10' - 0"
1' - 10"
103' - 2"
6' - 1 1/2"
MIN. 60'-0"
+/- 97' - 2" TO CURB CORNER
MAX. 35'-0"
PROPOSED
20' - 0" CURB CUT
CURB CUT, MIN. 50'-0" APART
PROPOSED WIDTH
25' - 6" BET. CURB CUT
MAX. 35'-0"
PROPOSED 
20' - 0" CURB CUT
MIN. 60'-0"
+/- 60' - 0 3/8" TO CURB CORNER
11' - 1 1/2"
MIN. 80%
WITHIN 3' - 0" OF
SETBACK
10' - 0"
63' - 4"
5' - 0"
MIN. 75%
WITHIN 3' - 0" OF
SETBACK
10' - 0"
MIN. 75%
WITHIN 3' - 0" OF
SETBACK
10' - 0"
3' - 0"
6' - 6 3/8"
OF PL
MIN. 80%
WITHIN 5' - 0"
OF PL
MIN. 80%
WITHIN 5' - 0"
LOADING
154' - 6"
4' - 0 3/4"
115' - 0"
COURTYARD
68' - 8"
RAMP WIDTH
24' - 0"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
MIN. 20'-0"
HOLD CORNER
MIN. 20'-0"
HOLD CORNER
MIN. 20'-0"
HOLD CORNER
MIN. 20'-0"
HOLD CORNER
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
126' - 4"
14' - 10"
139' - 11"
3' - 0"
10' - 0 7/8"
103' - 2"
6' - 5"
143' - 2"
54' - 11"
6' - 9 3/8"
PROPERTY LINE
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
10'-0" SET BACK
BUILD-TO ZONE
0
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
1'
1'
0'
As indicated
O-A1.04
MU2
04/10/2020
MU2 OFFICE - LEVEL 01  PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 OFFICE - LEVEL 01 PLAN

--- page 117 ---
13
12
10
9.2
6
5
4
3
2
1
B
C
D
E
G
H
11
6.4
8
7
9
A
OPEN TO BELOW
E.8
F.8
G.8
STAIR 1
STAIR 3
ELEC.
RM 2
IDF RM 2
ELEC.
RM 1
IDF RM 1
SETBACK
10' - 0"
MIN. 75%
WITHIN 3' - 0" OF
SETBACK
10' - 0"
MIN. 75%
WITHIN 3' - 0" OF
1
O-A2.02
2
O-A2.02
1
O-A2.01
2
O-A2.01
MIN. 80%
WITHIN 10' - 0" OF 
SETBACK
10' - 0"
ENCROACHMENT
18' - 2" MINOR
70' - 0"
BREAK IN BLOCK FACE
71' - 7" PROPOSED
5' - 2 1/2"
COURTYARD
60' - 0"
MINOR ENCROACHMENT
86' - 11"
MIN. 70%
WITHIN 3' - 0" OF
SETBACK
10' - 0"
1' - 4"
OF PL
MIN. 80%
WITHIN 5' - 0"
OF PL
MIN. 80%
WITHIN 5' - 0"
3' - 2"
PROPOSED
11' - 4"
OPEN
OFFICE
OPEN TO 
BELOW
OPEN TO 
BELOW
85' - 0"
3' - 2"
2' - 0"
123' - 8"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
MIN. 20'-0"
HOLD CORNER
MIN. 20'-0"
HOLD CORNER
MIN. 20'-0"
HOLD CORNER
MIN. 20'-0"
HOLD CORNER
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
1' - 4"
208' - 2"
1' - 9 3/8"
110' - 0"
11' - 4"
3' - 2 7/8"
113' - 8"
146' - 7"
158' - 2"
PROPERTY LINE
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
10'-0" SET BACK
BUILD-TO ZONE
0
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
1'
1'
0'
As indicated
O-A1.05
MU2
04/10/2020
MU2 OFFICE - LEVEL 02  PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 OFFICE -  LEVEL 02 PLAN

--- page 118 ---
13
12
10
9.2
6
5
4
3
2
1
B
C
D
E
G
H
11
6.4
8
7
9
A
1' - 4"
E.8
F.8
G.8
STAIR 1
STAIR 3
STAIR 2
IDF RM 1
ELEC.
RM 1
ELEC.
RM  2
IDF RM 2
PROPOSED
11' - 4"
1
O-A2.02
2
O-A2.02
1
O-A2.01
2
O-A2.01
ENCROACHMENT
18' - 2" MINOR
85' - 0"
3' - 2"
BREAK IN BLOCK FACE
71' - 7" PROPOSED
MINOR ENCROACHMENT
86' - 11"
5' - 2 1/2"
COURTYARD
60' - 0"
SETBACK
10' - 0"
MIN. 75%
WITHIN 3' - 0" OF
SETBACK
10' - 0"
MIN. 75%
WITHIN 3' - 0" OF
MIN. 80%
WITHIN 10' - 0" OF
SETBACK
10' - 0"
MIN. 70%
WITHIN 3' - 0" OF
SETBACK
10' - 0"
OF PL
MIN. 80%
WITHIN 5' - 0"
OF PL
MIN. 80%
WITHIN 5' - 0"
2' - 0"
123' - 8"
158' - 2"
OPEN TO 
BELOW
OPEN TO 
BELOW
OPEN
OFFICE
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
MIN. 20'-0"
HOLD CORNER
MIN. 20'-0"
HOLD CORNER
MIN. 20'-0"
HOLD CORNER
MIN. 20'-0"
HOLD CORNER
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
1' - 4"
208' - 2"
1' - 9 3/8"
110' - 0"
11' - 4"
3' - 2 7/8"
113' - 8"
146' - 7"
PROPERTY LINE
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
10'-0" SET BACK
BUILD-TO ZONE
0
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
1'
1'
0'
As indicated
O-A1.06
MU2
04/10/2020
MU2 OFFICE - LEVEL 03  PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 OFFICE - LEVEL 03 PLAN

--- page 119 ---
13
12
10
9.2
6
5
4
3
2
1
B
C
D
E
G
H
11
6.4
8
7
9
A
TERRACE, SEE LANDSCAPE DRAWINGS FOR SCOPE
UNOCCUPIED ROOF
TERRACE
TERRACE
E.8
F.8
G.8
STAIR 1
IDF RM 1
ELEC.
RM 1
ELEC.
RM 2
IDF
RM 2
1
O-A2.02
2
O-A2.02
1
O-A2.01
2
O-A2.01
MIN. 40%
WITHIN 10' - 0" OF
SETBACK
10' - 0"
88' - 2"
70' - 0"
LOWER HEIGHT ZONE
40' MIN
90' - 0"
MIN. 50%
WITHIN 10' - 0" OF
SETBACK
10' - 0"
MIN. 50%
WITHIN 10' - 0" OF
SETBACK
10' - 0"
MAX. 90%
WITHIN 10' - 0" OF
SETBACK
10' - 0"
LOWER HEIGHT ZONE
20' - 0"
MINOR ENCROACHMENT
59' - 10"
5' - 2 1/2"
BREAK IN BLOCK FACE
71' - 7" PROPOSED
COURTYARD
60' - 0"
PROPOSED
13' - 2"
OPEN TO 
BELOW
OPEN TO 
BELOW
LEVEL 5 MASSING
80' - 0" MAX
OF PL
TOP FLOOR:
MIN. 70% WITHIN 10' - 0"
OPEN
OFFICE
85' - 0"
3' - 2"
2' - 0"
123' - 8"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
MIN. 20'-0"
HOLD CORNER
MIN. 20'-0"
HOLD CORNER
MIN. 20'-0"
HOLD CORNER
MIN. 20'-0"
HOLD CORNER
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
8' - 2"
73' - 2"
128' - 2"
1' - 9 3/8"
88' - 2"
13' - 2"
10' - 0 7/8"
105' - 0"
134' - 6"
10' - 0"
158' - 2"
PROPERTY LINE
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
10'-0" SET BACK
BUILD-TO ZONE
0
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
1'
1'
0'
As indicated
O-A1.07
MU2
04/10/2020
MU2 OFFICE - LEVEL 04  PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 OFFICE - LEVEL 04 PLAN

--- page 120 ---
13
12
10
9.2
6
5
4
3
2
1
B
C
D
E
G
H
11
6.4
8
7
9
A
VRF 
CONDENSOR 
PAD
AHU
VRF 
CONDENSOR 
PAD
AHU
GARAGE 
EXHAUST FAN
GARAGE 
EXHAUST FAN
POTENTIAL FUTURE 
TENANT IMPROVEMENT 
SPACE
E.8
F.8
G.8
STAIR 2
MEP N
MEP S
BATHROOM 
EXHAUST FAN
BATHROOM  
EXHAUST FAN
1
O-A2.02
2
O-A2.02
1
O-A2.01
2
O-A2.01
MEP
PROPERTY LINE
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
10'-0" SET BACK
BUILD-TO ZONE
0
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
1'
1'
0'
As indicated
O-A1.08
MU2
04/10/2020
MU2 OFFICE - LOWER ROOF  PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 OFFICE - LOWER ROOF PLAN

--- page 121 ---
RAMP UP
16.67%
8.33%
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
C
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
18'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
24'-6"
18'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
9'-0"
EQ.
9'-0"
EQ.
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
2AT9'-0"=18'-0"
1'-6"
1'-6"
18'-0"
4'-0"
3 AT 8'-0" = 24'-0"
10"
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
24'-0"
3'-6"
R5'-0"
6'-0"
25'-0"
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
3 AT 8'-0" = 24'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0" EQ.
EQ.
9'-0"
3 AT 8'-0" = 24'-0"
10"
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
24'-0"
24'-0"
3'-6"
R5'-0"
R2'-0"
2 AT 9'-0" = 18'-0"
3'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
UP
UP
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A
B
C
D
10
11
E
F
G
H
STORAGE
OFFICE PARKING
SUMP
ELEC.
RM1
2.1
ELEC.
RM 2
RAMP WIDTH
24' - 0"
STAIR 1
STORAGE
STAIR 2
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
PROPERTY LINE
0
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
1'
1'
0'
As indicated
O-A1.51
MU3
04/10/2020
MU3 OFFICE PARKING -  B2 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU3 OFFICE PARKING - B2 PLAN

--- page 122 ---
T
T
T
T
T
T
T
T
T
RAMP DN
RAMP UP
8.33%
16.67%
8.33%
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
V
V
EV-VA
EV-A
EV-VA
EV-A
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EV-AMB
EVCS
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
2AT8'-0"=16'-0"
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
1'-6"
2AT9'-0"=18'-0"
4'-0"
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
24'-0"
3'-6"
R5'-0"
6'-0"
25'-0"
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
2AT9'-0"= 18'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
26'-9"
3 AT 9'-0" = 27'-0"
2'-0"
R2'-0"
R5'-0"
R2'-0"
2AT9'-0"= 18'-0"
4'-0"
9'-0" 5'-0"
1'-0"
8'-0"
4'-103/8"
12'-0"
5'-0"
9'-0"
1'-0"
R2'-0"
9'-0" 5'-0"
2'-0"
12'-0"
5'-0" 9'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
5'-0" 9'-0" 5'-0" 9'-0"
12'-0"
5'-0" 9'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
5'-0"
9'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
24'-0"
18'-0"
18'-0"
12'-0"
5'-0" 9'-0"
10'-0"
9'-0"
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
4'-6"
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
TYP.
UP
UP
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A
B
C
D
10
11
E
F
G
H
BOH
MPOE
WATER METER
2.1
ELEC.
RM2
RAMP WIDTH
24' - 0"
ROLL-DOWN 
GATE
MULTI-FAMILY
PARKING
OFFICE
PARKING
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
ELEC. 1
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
PROPERTY LINE
MULTI-FAMILY PARKING 
0
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
1'
1'
0'
As indicated
O-A1.52
MU3
04/10/2020
MU3 OFFICE PARKING - B1 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU3 OFFICE PARKING - B1 PLAN

--- page 123 ---
TRASH
30" X 36"
8'-3" X 33"
33" X 33"
33X36
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
27.5" X 45"
27.5" X 36"
DW
21" X 21"
21" X 21"
21" X 21"
21" X 21"
34 x 60
6'-0" X 32"
33X36
6'-0" X 32"
DW
22x24
22x24
22x24
22x24
42"
21" X 21"
21" X 21"
30"
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
33X36
22x24
22x24
22x24
22x24
42"
21" X 21"
30"
21" X 21"
DW
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
27.5" X 45"
27.5" X 36"
33X36
22x24
22x24
22x24
22x24
42"
21" X 21"
30"
21" X 21"
DW
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
27.5" X 45"
27.5" X 36"
33X36
22x24
22x24
22x24
22x24
42"
21" X 21"
30"
21" X 21"
DW
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
27.5" X 45"
27.5" X 36"
7'-6" X 36"
33X36
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
DW
7'-6" X 36"
33X36
21" X 21"
30"
21" X 21"
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
7'-6" X 36"
33X36
DW
33X36
22x24
22x24
22x24
22x24
42"
21" X 21"
30"
21" X 21"
DW
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
27.5" X 45"
27.5" X 36"
7'-6" X 36"
33X36
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
DW
7'-6" X 36"
33X36
21" X 21"
30"
21" X 21"
33X36
22x24
22x24
22x24
22x24
42"
21" X 21"
30"
21" X 21"
DW
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
27.5" X 45"
27.5" X 36"
6'-0" X 32"
33X36
6'-0" X 32"
DW
22x24
22x24
22x24
22x24
42"
21" X 21"
21" X 21"
30"
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
33X36
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
27.5" X 45"
27.5" X 36"
DW
21" X 21"
21" X 21"
21" X 21"
21" X 21"
34 x 60
IRR
BFP
BTA
150 SQ. FT.
BTA
612 SQ. FT.
BTA
316 SQ. FT.
BTA
316 SQ. FT.
RAMP DN
8.33%
16.67%
DN
UP
TRASH
30" X 36"
8'-3" X 33"
33" X 33"
33X36
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
27.5" X 45"
27.5" X 36"
DW
21" X 21"
21" X 21"
21" X 21"
21" X 21"
34 x 60
6'-0" X 32"
33X36
6'-0" X 32"
DW
22x24
22x24
22x24
22x24
42"
21" X 21"
21" X 21"
30"
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
33X36
22x24
22x24
22x24
22x24
42"
21" X 21"
30"
21" X 21"
DW
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
27.5" X 45"
27.5" X 36"
33X36
22x24
22x24
22x24
22x24
42"
21" X 21"
30"
21" X 21"
DW
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
27.5" X 45"
27.5" X 36"
33X36
22x24
22x24
22x24
22x24
42"
21" X 21"
30"
21" X 21"
DW
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
27.5" X 45"
27.5" X 36"
7'-6" X 36"
33X36
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
DW
7'-6" X 36"
33X36
21" X 21"
30"
21" X 21"
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
7'-6" X 36"
33X36
DW
33X36
22x24
22x24
22x24
22x24
42"
21" X 21"
30"
21" X 21"
DW
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
27.5" X 45"
27.5" X 36"
7'-6" X 36"
33X36
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
DW
7'-6" X 36"
33X36
21" X 21"
30"
21" X 21"
33X36
22x24
22x24
22x24
22x24
42"
21" X 21"
30"
21" X 21"
DW
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
27.5" X 45"
27.5" X 36"
6'-0" X 32"
33X36
6'-0" X 32"
DW
22x24
22x24
22x24
22x24
42"
21" X 21"
21" X 21"
30"
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
33X36
6'-8"
5'-0"
QUEEN
27.5" X 45"
27.5" X 36"
DW
21" X 21"
21" X 21"
21" X 21"
21" X 21"
34 x 60
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
v
v
v
v
v
v
ts
ts
sl
c
ts
sl
sd
e
e
up
e
sl
ev
e
cv
sl
sl
sl
e
ev
uc
ss
w
ir
c
sl
sl
ev
sd
sd
sd
sd
sl
sl
sl
sl
sd
sl
sl
sl
sl
sl
ss
ss
uc
uc
up
sd
ts
ts
ir
sd
w
e
up
sd
ir
Top 15" Vertical CPP: 102.56
6" PVC Inv: 99.67
D
D
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A
B
C
D
10
11
E
ACTIVE-USE SPACE
2
O-A2.61
TRANSFORMER
MAIN
ELEC
BOH
ACTIVE-USE SPACE
PASSAGEWAY
PROPOSED
23' - 8" PEDESTRIAN
115' - 0"
115' - 0"
115' - 4 1/4"
114' - 0"
113' - 7 3/4"
STAIR 2
GAS METER
IDF
RM 1
ELEC.
RM 1
ELEC.
RM 2
IDF
RM 2
OPEN
OFFICE
PARKING
LOADING
1
O-A2.52
2
O-A2.52
1
O-A2.51
2
O-A2.51
2.1
MIN. 60'-0" 
+/- 72' - 6 3/4" TO CURB CORNER
MAX. 35'-0"
20' - 0" CURB CUT
REQ: MIN. 50'-0" APART
PROPOSED WIDTH
5' - 0" BET. CURB CUT
MAX. 35'-0"
20' - 0" CURB CUT
MIN. 60'-0"
+/- 109' - 0 5/8" TO CURB CORNER
25' - 0"
RAMP WIDTH
24' - 0"
MULTI-FAMILY
MIN. 80%
WITHIN 10' - 0" OF
MIN. 80%
WITHIN 10' - 0" OF
55' - 0"
5' - 0"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
1' - 10"
125' - 0"
107' - 6"
10' - 8"
5' - 0"
111' - 0"
PROPOSED
LOWER HEIGHT 
ZONE
BLDG SEPARATION
MIN. 20'-0"
STAIR 1
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
PROPERTY LINE
10'-0" SET BACK
BUILD-TO ZONE
0
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
1'
1'
0'
As indicated
O-A1.53
MU3
04/10/2020
MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL 01 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL 01 PLAN

--- page 124 ---
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A
B
C
D
10
11
E
F
ELEC .
RM 2
IDF
RM 2
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
IDF
RM 1
ELEC.
RM 1
1
O-A2.52
2
O-A2.52
1
O-A2.51
2
O-A2.51
2.1
10' - 0"
OPEN
OFFICE
OPEN TO 
BELOW
OPEN TO 
BELOW
MIN. 80%
WITHIN 10' - 0" OF
SETBACK
10' - 0"
SETBACK
10' - 0"
MIN. 80%
WITHIN 10' - 0" OF
160' - 0"
120' - 0"
INTO SETBACK
49' - 11 3/4" ENCROACHMENT
INTO SETBACK
49' - 11 3/4" ENCROACHMENT
OF PL
MIN. 80%
WITHIN 5' - 0"
120' - 0"
OPEN SPACE
MID-BLOCK
MULTI-FAMILY
OFFICE LOT DIMENSION
140' - 0 7/8"
MULTI-FAMILY LOT DIMENSION
79' - 5"
120' - 0"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
PROPERTY LINE
10'-0" SET BACK
BUILD-TO ZONE
0
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
1'
1'
0'
As indicated
O-A1.54
MU3
04/10/2020
MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL 02 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL 02 PLAN

--- page 125 ---
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A
B
C
D
10
11
E
F
ELEC.
RM 2
IDF
RM 2
STAIR 2
STAIR 1
IDF
RM 1
ELEC.
RM 1
1
O-A2.52
2
O-A2.52
1
O-A2.51
2
O-A2.51
2.1
MIN. 80%
WITHIN 10' - 0" OF
SETBACK
10' - 0"
SETBACK
10' - 0"
MIN. 80%
WITHIN 10' - 0" OF
OPEN
OFFICE
OPEN TO 
BELOW
OPEN TO 
BELOW
160' - 0"
120' - 0"
120' - 0"
INTO SETBACK
49' - 11 3/4" ENCROACHMENT
INTO SETBACK
49' - 11 3/4" ENCROACHMENT
OF PL
MIN. 80%
WITHIN 5' - 0"
OFFICE LOT DIMENSION
140' - 0 7/8"
MULTI-FAMILY LOT DIMENSION
79' - 5"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
120' - 0"
OPEN SPACE
MID-BLOCK
MULTI-FAMILY
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
PROPERTY LINE
10'-0" SET BACK
BUILD-TO ZONE
0
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
1'
1'
0'
As indicated
O-A1.55
MU3
04/10/2020
MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL 03 PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL 03 PLAN

--- page 126 ---
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A
B
C
D
10
11
E
F
ELEC.
RM 2
STAIR 2
IDF
RM 2
1
O-A2.52
2
O-A2.52
1
O-A2.51
2
O-A2.51
2.1
MIN. 40%
WITHIN 10' - 0" OF
SETBACK
10' - 0"
SETBACK
10' - 0"
MIN. 40%
WITHIN 10' - 0" OF
STAIR 1
IDF
RM 1
ELEC.
RM 1
OPEN
OFFICE
OF PL
MIN. 70%
WITHIN 10' - 0"
120' - 0"
160' - 0"
OPEN TO 
BELOW
OPEN TO 
BELOW
INTO SETBACK
49' - 11 3/4" ENCROACHMENT
120' - 0"
OPEN SPACE
MID-BLOCK
MULTI-FAMILY
INTO SETBACK
49' - 11 3/4" ENCROACHMENT
OFFICE LOT DIMENSION
140' - 0 7/8"
MULTI-FAMILY LOT DIMENSION
79' - 5"
120' - 0"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
HOLD CORNER, MIN. 60'-0"
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
PROPERTY LINE
10'-0" SET BACK
BUILD-TO ZONE
0
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
1'
1'
0'
As indicated
O-A1.56
MU3
04/10/2020
MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL 04  PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU3 OFFICE - LEVEL 04 PLAN

--- page 127 ---
1
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A
B
C
D
10
11
E
F
VRF 
CONDENSOR 
PAD
AHU
PAD
VRF 
CONDENSOR 
PAD
AHU
PAD
GARAGE 
EXHAUST FAN
GARAGE 
EXHAUST 
FAN
EXTENT OF TRELLIS
1
O-A2.52
2
O-A2.52
1
O-A2.51
2
O-A2.51
2.1
MEP
LOBBY
MEP N
MEP S
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
OPEN TO 
BELOW
OPEN TO 
BELOW
FLOOR PLAN LEGEND
PROPERTY LINE
10'-0" SET BACK
BUILD-TO ZONE
0
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
1'
1'
0'
As indicated
O-A1.57
MU3
04/10/2020
MU3 OFFICE - LOWER ROOF PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU3 OFFICE - LOWER ROOF PLAN

--- page 128 ---
LEVEL 01
113' - 1 1/4"
LEVEL 02
130' - 0 7/8"
LEVEL 03
142' - 6 7/8"
LEVEL 04
155' - 0 7/8"
ROOF
167' - 6 7/8"
T/ PENTHOUSE
182' - 6 7/8"
SITE LOWEST GRADE
111' - 10 3/8"
T/ PLATE
166' - 10 3/8"
PL
PL
BUILDING HEIGHT
54' - 8 1/4"
3
1
2
8
1
SEE NOTE #1
A
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE: FACADE STAGGER PATTERN EXPRESSION
LEVEL 01
113' - 1 1/4"
LEVEL 02
130' - 0 7/8"
LEVEL 03
142' - 6 7/8"
LEVEL 04
155' - 0 7/8"
ROOF
167' - 6 7/8"
T/ PENTHOUSE
182' - 6 7/8"
SITE LOWEST GRADE
111' - 10 3/8"
T/ PLATE
166' - 10 3/8"
PL
PL
BUILDING HEIGHT
54' - 8 3/8"
BUILDING HEIGHT
53' - 1"
2
1
7
8
4
3
2
1
8
SEE NOTE #1
SEE NOTE #1
A
SEE NOTE #2
MATERIALS LEGEND AND NOTES
OFFICE FACADE MATERIAL 
2 SIDED SSG TYP, CAPTURED VERTICALLY AT EVERY 10’.
4 SIDED SSG
FACADE PATTERN: 1’-10” WIDE GLAZED-IN METAL PANEL 
OVERSIZED 10’-0” WIDE 4 SIDED SSG 
2 SIDED SSG WITH VANCEVA INTERLAY
OTHER SYSTEMS:
ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE WALL: 2STONE BOARD 
FORM VENEER, 72” X 6” X 1/2” STANDARD GREY
SOLID METAL SCREEN: MORIN MATRIX SERIES
SOFFIT SYSTEMS: 
PARKLEX PANEL, LAMINATED WOOD BOARD FOR EXT.
METAL PANEL
1
2
3
4
6
7
8
9
5
NOTES:
1.  PERMITTED ELEVATOR BULKHEAD AND MECHANICAL 
APPURTENANCES ABOVE 55' HEIGHT LIMIT PER SAN MATEO CITY 
CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL ITEM 27.02.060 USE AND BULK 
REGULATIONS.
2. FACADE EXTENT UPDATED TO COMPLY WITH BUILD-TO ZONE 
ON DERBY AVE.
MATERIALS LEGEND:
0
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
1'
1'
0'
As indicated
O-A2.01
MU2
04/10/2020
MU2 OFFICE -- BUILDING ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
2 MU2 NORTH ELEVATION - E 28TH AVENUE
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 WEST ELEVATION - S DELAWARE STREET
A
A
A

--- page 129 ---
LEVEL 01
113' - 1 1/4"
LEVEL 02
130' - 0 7/8"
LEVEL 03
142' - 6 7/8"
LEVEL 04
155' - 0 7/8"
ROOF
167' - 6 7/8"
T/ PENTHOUSE
182' - 6 7/8"
SITE LOWEST GRADE
111' - 10 3/8"
T/ PLATE
166' - 10 3/8"
PL
PL
BUILDING HEIGHT
54' - 7 1/2"
1
6
7
8
4
3
2
1
8
SEE NOTE #1
SEE NOTE #1
A
SEE NOTE #2
LEVEL 01
113' - 1 1/4"
LEVEL 02
130' - 0 7/8"
LEVEL 03
142' - 6 7/8"
LEVEL 04
155' - 0 7/8"
ROOF
167' - 6 7/8"
T/ PENTHOUSE
182' - 6 7/8"
SITE LOWEST GRADE
111' - 10 3/8"
T/ PLATE
166' - 10 3/8"
PL
PL
10' SETBACK
BUILDING HEIGHT
53' - 6 3/4"
BUILDING HEIGHT
52' - 5 7/8"
2
3
1
8
5
6
1
7
SEE NOTE #1
A
MATERIALS LEGEND AND NOTES
OFFICE FACADE MATERIAL 
2 SIDED SSG TYP, CAPTURED VERTICALLY AT EVERY 10’.
4 SIDED SSG
FACADE PATTERN: 1’-10” WIDE GLAZED-IN METAL PANEL 
OVERSIZED 10’-0” WIDE 4 SIDED SSG 
2 SIDED SSG WITH VANCEVA INTERLAY
OTHER SYSTEMS:
ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE WALL: 2STONE BOARD 
FORM VENEER, 72” X 6” X 1/2” STANDARD GREY
SOLID METAL SCREEN: MORIN MATRIX SERIES
SOFFIT SYSTEMS: 
PARKLEX PANEL, LAMINATED WOOD BOARD FOR EXT.
METAL PANEL
1
2
3
4
6
7
8
9
5
NOTES:
1.  PERMITTED ELEVATOR BULKHEAD AND MECHANICAL 
APPURTENANCES ABOVE 55' HEIGHT LIMIT PER SAN MATEO CITY 
CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL ITEM 27.02.060 USE AND BULK 
REGULATIONS.
2. FACADE EXTENT UPDATED TO COMPLY WITH BUILD-TO ZONE 
ON DERBY AVE.
MATERIALS LEGEND:
0
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
1'
1'
0'
As indicated
O-A2.02
MU2
04/10/2020
MU2 OFFICE - BUILDING ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU2 EAST ELEVATION - W KYNE STREET
1/16" = 1'-0"
2 MU2 SOUTH ELEVATION - DERBY AVENUE
A
A
A

--- page 130 ---
LEVEL 01 OFFICE
115' - 0"
LEVEL 02
131' - 1 3/8"
LEVEL 03
143' - 7 3/8"
LEVEL 04
156' - 1 3/8"
LOWER ROOF
168' - 7 3/8"
TOP OF MECHANICAL
PENTHOUSE
182' - 0"
SITE LOWEST GRADE
112' - 10 7/8"
T/ PLATE
167' - 10 7/8"
PL
PL
BUILDING HEIGHT
52' - 11 5/8"
BUILDING HEIGHT
54' - 6 3/8"
SEE NOTE #1
7
1
2
3
4
8
1
2
3
SEE NOTE #1
A
LEVEL 01 OFFICE
115' - 0"
LEVEL 02
131' - 1 3/8"
LEVEL 03
143' - 7 3/8"
LEVEL 04
156' - 1 3/8"
LOWER ROOF
168' - 7 3/8"
TOP OF MECHANICAL
PENTHOUSE
182' - 0"
SITE LOWEST GRADE
112' - 10 7/8"
T/ PLATE
167' - 10 7/8"
PL
PL
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
OFFICE
BUILDING HEIGHT
54' - 6 3/8"
BUILDING HEIGHT
55' - 0"
OPEN SPACE
20' - 0" MID-BLOCK
SEE NOTE #1
7
8
3
2
1
1
A
OFFICE FACADE MATERIAL 
2 SIDED SSG TYP, CAPTURED VERTICALLY AT EVERY 10’.
4 SIDED SSG
FACADE PATTERN: 1’-10” WIDE GLAZED-IN METAL PANEL
OVERSIZED 10’-0” WIDE 4 SIDED SSG 
2 SIDED SSG WITH VANCEVA INTERLAY
OTHER SYSTEMS:
ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE WALL: 2STONE BOARD FORM 
VENEER, 72” X 6” X 1/2” STANDARD GREY
SOLID METAL SCREEN AT MEP EQUIPMENT: MORIN MATRIX 
SERIES
SOFFIT SYSTEMS: 
PARKLEX PANEL, LAMINATED WOOD BOARD FOR EXT.
METAL PANEL
MULTI-FAMILY FACADE MATERIAL 
SEE R-A3.01
MATERIALS LEGEND AND NOTES
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
MATERIALS LEGEND:
NOTES:
1.  PERMITTED ELEVATOR BULKHEAD AND MECHANICAL 
APPURTENANCES ABOVE 55' HEIGHT LIMIT PER SAN MATEO CITY 
CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL ITEM 27.02.060 USE AND BULK 
REGULATIONS.
0
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
1'
1'
0'
As indicated
O-A2.51
MU3
04/10/2020
MU3 OFFICE - BUILDING ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU3 OFFICE WEST ELEVATION - S DELAWARE STREET
1/16" = 1'-0"
2 MU3 NORTH ELEVATION - DERBY AVENUE
A
A
A
A

--- page 131 ---
TOP OF MECHANICAL
PENTHOUSE
182' - 0"
PL
PL
7
6
7
4
3
2
1
SEE NOTE #1
SEE NOTE #1
A
LEVEL 01 OFFICE
115' - 0"
LEVEL 02
131' - 1 3/8"
LEVEL 03
143' - 7 3/8"
LEVEL 04
156' - 1 3/8"
LOWER ROOF
168' - 7 3/8"
TOP OF MECHANICAL
PENTHOUSE
182' - 0"
SITE LOWEST GRADE
112' - 10 7/8"
T/ PLATE
167' - 10 7/8"
OFFICE
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
PL
PL
BUILDING HEIGHT
52' - 11 5/8"
BUILDING HEIGHT
54' - 3 5/8"
OPEN SPACE
20' - 0" MID BLOCK
7
1
3
2
8
6
SEE NOTE #1
A
OFFICE FACADE MATERIAL 
2 SIDED SSG TYP, CAPTURED VERTICALLY AT EVERY 10’.
4 SIDED SSG
FACADE PATTERN: 1’-10” WIDE GLAZED-IN METAL PANEL
OVERSIZED 10’-0” WIDE 4 SIDED SSG 
2 SIDED SSG WITH VANCEVA INTERLAY
OTHER SYSTEMS:
ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE WALL: 2STONE BOARD FORM 
VENEER, 72” X 6” X 1/2” STANDARD GREY
SOLID METAL SCREEN AT MEP EQUIPMENT: MORIN MATRIX 
SERIES
SOFFIT SYSTEMS: 
PARKLEX PANEL, LAMINATED WOOD BOARD FOR EXT.
METAL PANEL
MULTI-FAMILY FACADE MATERIAL 
SEE R-A3.01
MATERIALS LEGEND AND NOTES
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
MATERIALS LEGEND:
NOTES:
1.  PERMITTED ELEVATOR BULKHEAD AND MECHANICAL 
APPURTENANCES ABOVE 55' HEIGHT LIMIT PER SAN MATEO CITY 
CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL ITEM 27.02.060 USE AND BULK 
REGULATIONS.
0
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
1'
1'
0'
As indicated
O-A2.52
MU3
04/10/2020
MU3 OFFICE - BUILDING ELEVATIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 MU3 OFFICE EAST ELEVATION - MID-BLOCK OPEN SPACE
1/16" = 1'-0"
2 MU3 SOUTH ELEVATION - LANDING AVENUE
A
A
A
A

--- page 132 ---
LEVEL 01 OFFICE
115' - 0"
LEVEL 02
131' - 1 3/8"
LEVEL 03
143' - 7 3/8"
LEVEL 04
156' - 1 3/8"
LOWER ROOF
168' - 7 3/8"
A
B
C
D
E
B1
102' - 5 3/4"
B2
93' - 5 3/4"
F
G
H
EL 114.7'
EL 115.0'
EL 113.05'
TOP OF MECHANICAL
PENTHOUSE
182' - 0"
13' - 4 5/8"
12' - 6"
12' - 6"
12' - 6"
16' - 1 3/8"
12' - 6 1/4"
9' - 0"
EL 115.0'
MID-BLOCK 
PEDESTRIAN PASSAGE
OFFICE
OFFICE
OFFICE
OFFICE PARKING
OFFICE PARKING
SITE LOWEST GRADE
112' - 10 7/8"
10 FT SETBACK
PL
PL
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
OFFICE
T/ PLATE
167' - 10 7/8"
BUILDING HEIGHT
53' - 1 1/2"
11' - 0"
13' - 0"
3
2
3
2
6
OPEN SPACE
MID-BLOCK
MULTI-FAMILY  PARKING
OFFICE PARKING
SEE NOTE #1
.
.
OFFICE FACADE MATERIAL 
2 SIDED SSG TYP, CAPTURED VERTICALLY AT EVERY 10’.
4 SIDED SSG
FACADE PATTERN: 1’-10” WIDE GLAZED-IN METAL PANEL
OVERSIZED 10’-0” WIDE 4 SIDED SSG 
2 SIDED SSG WITH VANCEVA INTERLAY
OTHER SYSTEMS:
ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE WALL: 2STONE BOARD FORM 
VENEER, 72” X 6” X 1/2” STANDARD GREY
SOLID METAL SCREEN AT MEP EQUIPMENT: MORIN MATRIX 
SERIES
SOFFIT SYSTEMS: 
PARKLEX PANEL, LAMINATED WOOD BOARD FOR EXT.
METAL PANEL
MULTI-FAMILY FACADE MATERIAL 
SEE R-A3.01
MATERIALS LEGEND AND NOTES
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
MATERIALS LEGEND:
NOTES:
1.  PERMITTED ELEVATOR BULKHEAD AND MECHANICAL 
APPURTENANCES ABOVE 55' HEIGHT LIMIT PER SAN MATEO CITY 
CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL ITEM 27.02.060 USE AND BULK 
REGULATIONS.
0
SPAR  SUBMITTAL
All reproduction & intellectual property rights reserved © 2019
Project No: 491910.000
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
N
1'
1'
0'
As indicated
O-A2.61
MU3
04/10/2020
MU3 - BUILDING SECTIONS
1/16" = 1'-0"
2 MU3 BUILDING SECTION LOOKING SOUTH AT MID-BLOCK PASSAGE WAY

--- page 133 ---
T
T
T
T
T
T
T
T
T
RAMP DN
RAMP UP
8.33%
16.67%
8.33%
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
NO
PARKING
V
V
EV-VA
EV-A
EV-VA
EV-A
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EVCS
EV-AMB
EVCS
UP
UP
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A
B
C
D
10
11
E
F
G
H
17' - 0"
30' - 0"
30' - 0"
27' - 0"
30' - 0"
25' - 6"
30' - 0"
16' - 0"
BOH
MPOE
WATER METER
ELEC.
ROOM
MULTI-FAMILY
PARKING
2.1
OFFICE
PARKING
30' - 0"
30' - 0"
30' - 0"
30' - 0"
30' - 0"
30' - 0"
30' - 0"
30' - 0"
30' - 0"
18' - 0"
LIGHTING
INVERTER
HOUSE
PANELS
MDP 2000A
MOPE
16'-11"
22'-11"
4'-0"
BIKE ROOM
TRASH
ROOM
CHUTES
ABOVE
ELEV.
CTRL
RES.
BLDG.
LOBBY
0
16
8
32'
DOG
WASH
22'-814"
22'-6"
7'-0"
10'-6"
3 YD. BINS
COMPOST BINS
PARKING STRUCTURE GRID FROM
OFFICE BUILDING GRID LAYOUT -
SEE O-SERIES DRAWINGS.
ROLL DOWN GATE ACCESS
TO MULTI-FAMILY PARKING
R-A2.00
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
04/10/2020
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION SUBMITTAL
MU3
PARKING B1 LEVEL PLAN
1 / 1 6 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A

--- page 134 ---
40'-0"
79'-5"
10'-0"
19'-5"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10' MIN.
299'-113 4"
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10' MIN.
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
40'-0"
5'-0"
79'-5"
10'-0"
5'-0"
19'-5"
A
B
C
D
E
F
A
B
C
D
E
F
5'-0"5'-0"
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
17
16
1
R-A3.51
2
R-A3.51
1
R-A3.52
2
R-A3.52
1
R-A3.01
2
R-A3.01
3
R-A3.53
1
R-A3.53
3
UNIT 2A
(TEMP
LEASING
OFFICE)
ENTRY
MAIL
AND
VENDING
PACKAGE
ROOM
OFFICE
ADA
WC
PLAZA
ELEVATORS
TRASH
CORRIDOR
IDF
IDF
LOUNGE
BIKE
ROOM
FIRE
CTRL
RM
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
UNIT 2A
UNIT 3A
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2A
UNIT 3A
UNIT 2C
UNIT 2C
UNIT 1C
UNIT 1C
BIKE
STOR.
PLAN NOTES
UP
UP
UP
FOR OFFICE BUILDING,
SEE O-SERIES DRAWINGS.
UP
UP
4
R-A3.01
ALTERNATE METER ROOM
LOCATION - SEE NOTE #1
JAN.
CLO.
FOR OFFICE BUILDING,
SEE O-SERIES DRAWINGS.
ACCESSIBLE ROUTE FROM SITE
ARRIVAL POINT PER CBC SECTION
11B-206.2.1 TO EXTERIOR GROUND
FLOOR EXITS PER CBC SECTION
11B-206.4
1.
ALTERNATE METER ROOM
LOCATION IS INDICATED SOUTH OF
STAIR #1. LOCATION IS AS NEEDED
PENDING FINAL DESIGN OF
BASEMENT LEVEL PLAN, AND
ACCEPTANCE BY UTILITY PROVIDER/
RELEVANT AUTHORITY OF INITIAL
PROPOSED METER ROOM LOCATION
AND ACCESS PARAMETERS.
PRELIMINARY LADDER PAD LOCATIONS
ARE INDICATED ON THE PLAN, BASED
ON GUIDANCE FROM LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECT. PAD LOCATIONS TO BE
COORDINATED AND FINALIZED WITH
THE SAN MATEO FIRE DEPARTMENT .
WEST KYNE STREET
DERBY AVE
LANDING AVE
BUILD-TO ZONE
DERBY AVENUE:
MIN. 80% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
96.3% PROVIDED
WEST KYNE ST:
MIN 75% WITHIN 3' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
92.6% PROVIDED
LANDING AVENUE:
MIN 80% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
96.3% PROVIDED
0
16
8
32'
 
R-A2.01
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
04/10/2020
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION SUBMITTAL
MU3
GROUND FLOOR PLAN
1 / 1 6 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A

--- page 135 ---
40'-0"
79'-5"
10'-0"
19'-5"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10' MIN.
299'-113 4"
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10' MIN.
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-234"
40'-0"
5'-0"
79'-5"
10'-0"
5'-0"
19'-5"
A
B
C
D
E
F
A
B
C
D
E
F
5'-0"5'-0"
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
17
16
1
R-A3.51
2
R-A3.51
1
R-A3.52
2
R-A3.52
1
R-A3.01
4
R-A3.01
2
R-A3.01
3
R-A3.53
1
R-A3.53
E
IDF
IDF
ELEVATORS
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2A
UNIT 3B
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2A
UNIT 3B
UNIT 2D
UNIT 2D
UNIT 1D
UNIT 1D
UNIT 1D
UNIT 1A
UNIT 1B
UNIT 2A
TRASH
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
PLAN NOTES
0
16
8
32'
FOR OFFICE BUILDING,
SEE O-SERIES DRAWINGS.
BIKE
STOR.
BUILD-TO ZONE
DERBY AVENUE:
MIN. 80% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
96.3% PROVIDED
WEST KYNE ST:
MIN 75% WITHIN 3' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
92.6% PROVIDED
LANDING AVENUE:
MIN 80% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
96.3% PROVIDED
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
R-A2.02
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
04/10/2020
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION SUBMITTAL
MU3
SECOND FLOOR PLAN
1 / 1 6 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A

--- page 136 ---
40'-0"
79'-5"
10'-0"
19'-5"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10' MIN.
299'-113 4"
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10' MIN.
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
40'-0"
5'-0"
79'-5"
10'-0"
5'-0"
19'-5"
A
B
C
D
E
F
A
B
C
D
E
F
5'-0"5'-0"
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
17
16
1
R-A3.51
2
R-A3.51
1
R-A3.52
2
R-A3.52
1
R-A3.01
4
R-A3.01
2
R-A3.01
3
R-A3.53
1
R-A3.53
E
IDF
IDF
ELEVATORS
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2A
UNIT 3B
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2A
UNIT 2A
UNIT 3B
UNIT 2D
UNIT 2D
UNIT 1D
UNIT 1D
UNIT 1D
UNIT 1A
UNIT 1B
UNIT 2A
TRASH
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
PLAN NOTES
0
16
8
32'
BIKE
STOR.
FOR OFFICE BUILDING,
SEE O-SERIES DRAWINGS.
BUILD-TO ZONE
DERBY AVENUE:
MIN. 80% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
96.3% PROVIDED
WEST KYNE ST:
MIN 75% WITHIN 3' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
92.6% PROVIDED
LANDING AVENUE:
MIN 80% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
96.3% PROVIDED
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
R-A2.03
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
04/10/2020
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION SUBMITTAL
MU3
THIRD FLOOR PLAN
1 / 1 6 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A

--- page 137 ---
40'-0"
79'-5"
10'-0"
19'-5"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10' MIN.
299'-113 4"
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10' MIN.
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
40'-0"
5'-0"
79'-5"
10'-0"
5'-0"
19'-5"
A
B
C
D
E
F
A
B
C
D
E
F
5'-0"5'-0"
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
17
16
1
R-A3.51
2
R-A3.51
1
R-A3.52
2
R-A3.52
1
R-A3.01
4
R-A3.01
2
R-A3.01
3
R-A3.53
1
R-A3.53
E
IDF
IDF
ELEVATORS
UNIT 2B
UNIT 2B
UNIT 3C
UNIT 2B
UNIT 2B
UNIT 2B
UNIT 3C
UNIT 2D
UNIT 2D
UNIT 1G
UNIT 1G
UNIT 1G
UNIT 1E
UNIT 1F
UNIT 2B
TRASH
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
PLAN NOTES
0
16
8
32'
FOR OFFICE BUILDING,
SEE O-SERIES DRAWINGS.
BIKE
STOR.
BUILD-TO ZONE
DERBY AVENUE:
MIN. 40% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
96.3% PROVIDED
WEST KYNE ST:
MIN 50% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
97.8% PROVIDED
LANDING AVENUE:
MIN 40% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
96.3% PROVIDED
R-A2.04
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
04/10/2020
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION SUBMITTAL
MU3
FOURTH FLOOR PLAN
1 / 1 6 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A

--- page 138 ---
40'-0"
79'-5"
10'-0"
19'-5"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10' MIN.
299'-113 4"
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10' MIN.
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
40'-0"
5'-0"
79'-5"
10'-0"
5'-0"
19'-5"
A
B
C
D
E
F
A
B
C
D
E
F
5'-0"5'-0"
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
17
16
1
R-A3.51
2
R-A3.51
1
R-A3.52
2
R-A3.52
1
R-A3.01
4
R-A3.01
2
R-A3.01
3
R-A3.53
1
R-A3.53
E
ELEVATORS
UNIT 2B
UNIT 2B
UNIT 3C
UNIT 2B
UNIT 2B
UNIT 2B
UNIT 3C
UNIT 1G
UNIT 1G
UNIT 1G
UNIT 1E
UNIT 1F
UNIT 2B
TRASH
STAIR 1
STAIR 2
STOR.
PLAN NOTES
0
16
8
32'
FLAT ROOF FOR
MECH. EQUIPMENT
FLAT ROOF FOR
MECH. EQUIPMENT
FLAT ROOF FOR
MECH. EQUIPMENT
FLAT ROOF FOR
MECH. EQUIPMENT
FOR OFFICE BUILDING,
SEE O-SERIES DRAWINGS.
BUILD-TO ZONE
DERBY AVENUE:
MIN. 40% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
96.3% PROVIDED
WEST KYNE ST:
MIN 50% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
97.8% PROVIDED
LANDING AVENUE:
MIN 40% WITHIN 10' OF SETBACK LINE REQUIRED;
96.3% PROVIDED
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
R-A2.05
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
04/10/2020
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION SUBMITTAL
MU3
FOURTH FLOOR LOFT PLAN
1 / 1 6 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A

--- page 139 ---
40'-0"
79'-5"
10'-0"
19'-5"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10' MIN.
299'-1134"
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10' MIN.
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
40'-0"
5'-0"
79'-5"
10'-0"
5'-0"
19'-5"
A
B
C
D
E
F
A
B
C
D
E
F
5'-0"5'-0"
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
17
16
1
R-A3.51
2
R-A3.51
1
R-A3.52
2
R-A3.52
1
R-A3.01
4
R-A3.01
2
R-A3.01
3
R-A3.53
1
R-A3.53
E
PLAN NOTES
0
16
8
32'
FOR OFFICE BUILDING,
SEE O-SERIES DRAWINGS.
FLAT ROOF FOR
PHOTOVOLTAICS
(1240 SF)
FLAT ROOF FOR
PHOTOVOLTAICS
(950 SF)
ROOFTOP
AMENITY
DN
DN
36'-6"
34'-0"
36'-6"
26'-0"
TOTAL ROOF AREA
*MINIMUM SOLAR ZONE AREA REQUIREMENTS
PER T24 SOLAR READY REQUIREMENTS
SOLAR AREA PROVIDED
REQ. SOLAR MINIMUM (15%)
13,898 SF
2190 SF
2085 SF
SOLAR AREA TABULATION
LOWER HEIGHT ZONE.
SEE ELEVATION FOR
REFERENCE.
LOWER HEIGHT ZONE.
SEE ELEVATION FOR
REFERENCE.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
R-A2.06
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
04/10/2020
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION SUBMITTAL
MU3
ROOF PLAN
1 / 1 6 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A

--- page 140 ---
SECOND FLOOR F.F.E.
12'-2"
THIRD FLOOR F.F.E.
22'-4"
FOURTH FLOOR F.F.E.
32'-6"
55' HEIGHT LIMIT
GROUND FLOOR F.F.E.
LOWER ROOF / LOFT F.F.E.
42'-8"
T.O. PLATE
51'-8"
SECOND FLOOR F.F.E.
12'-2"
THIRD FLOOR F.F.E.
22'-4"
FOURTH FLOOR F.F.E.
32'-6"
55' HEIGHT LIMIT
GROUND FLOOR F.F.E.
LOWER ROOF / LOFT F.F.E.
42'-8"
T.O. PLATE
51'-8"
4
WEST ELEVATION - MID-BLOCK OPEN SPACE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
ELEVATION KEY
3
NORTH ELEVATION - DERBY AVENUE
2
SOUTH ELEVATION - LANDING AVENUE
ELEVATION KEY
ELEVATION KEY
53'-73 4"
53'-73 4"
3
4
2
FOR OFFICE BUILDING,
SEE O-SERIES DRAWINGS.
NOTE#1:
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE & ELEVATOR
BULKHEAD
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE (PER BAY
MEADOWS PHASE ii DESIGN GUIDELINES AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS, ITEM II.7): THE
PROPOSED ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE MARKS
THE MID-BLOCK PASSAGE, EMPHASIZES THE
BUILDING ENTRY, AND PROVIDES A MASSING
BREAK FROM GROUND TO SKY ALONG THE
WEST  KYNE STREET FRONTAGE. THE
VERTICAL ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE
INTEGRATES AN OPEN PERGOLA SHADE
STRUCTURE AT THE ROOF DECK.
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES ARE AN
EXCEPTION TO THE BUILDING HEIGHT LIMIT.
ELEVATOR BULKHEADS ARE EXCEPTIONS TO
MAXIMUM BULK RESTRICTIONS PER SAN
MATEO CITY CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL CODE
ITEM 27.02.060 USE AND BULK RESTRICTIONS.
SEE NOTE #1
SEE NOTE #1
SEE NOTE #1
LEGEND & NOTES
SECOND FLOOR F.F.E.
12'-2"
THIRD FLOOR F.F.E.
22'-4"
FOURTH FLOOR F.F.E.
32'-6"
55' HEIGHT LIMIT
GROUND FLOOR F.F.E.
LOWER ROOF / LOFT F.F.E.
42'-8"
T.O. PLATE
51'-8"
1
EAST ELEVATION - WEST KYNE STREET
PROPERTY LINE
PROPERTY LINE
8' MIN.
TYP.
ELEVATION KEY
KYNE/LANDING SIDEWALK
-0'-10" (+114.15)
KYNE/DERBY SIDEWALK
-1'-9.5" (+113.2)
53'-73 4"
1
0
16
8
32'
SEE NOTE #1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
R-A3.01
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
04/10/2020
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION SUBMITTAL
MU3
BUILDING ELEVATIONS
1 / 1 6 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A

--- page 141 ---
LEGEND & NOTES
1
SMOOTH FINISH STUCCO
2
CEMENTITIOUS SIDING
3
4
9" THICK ANODIZED METAL
BALCONY PARTITION
VINYL SLIDING DOORS & WINDOWS
5
12" METAL "BROW"
6
GLASS GUARDRAIL AT ROOF DECK
7
ANODIZED ALUMINUM PANELS
8
METAL GUARDRAIL AT BALCONY
NOTE #1:
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE & ELEVATOR
BULKHEAD
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE (PER BAY
MEADOWS PHASE ii DESIGN GUIDELINES AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS, ITEM II.7): THE
PROPOSED ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE MARKS
THE MID-BLOCK PASSAGE, EMPHASIZES THE
BUILDING ENTRY, AND PROVIDES A MASSING
BREAK FROM GROUND TO SKY ALONG THE
WEST  KYNE STREET FRONTAGE. THE
VERTICAL ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE
INTEGRATES AN OPEN PERGOLA SHADE
STRUCTURE AT THE ROOF DECK.
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES ARE AN
EXCEPTION TO THE BUILDING HEIGHT LIMIT.
ELEVATOR BULKHEADS ARE EXCEPTIONS TO
MAXIMUM BULK RESTRICTIONS PER SAN
MATEO CITY CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL CODE
ITEM 27.02.060 USE AND BULK RESTRICTIONS.
55' HEIGHT LIMIT
T.O. PLATE
51'-8"
SECOND FLOOR F.F.E.
12'-2"
THIRD FLOOR F.F.E.
22'-4"
FOURTH FLOOR F.F.E.
32'-6"
GROUND FLOOR F.F.E.
0'-0" (+115.5)
LOWER ROOF / LOFT F.F.E.
42'-8"
10'-2"
9'-0"
10'-2"
10'-2"
12'-2"
12'-0"
GRADE PLANE
-2'-2" (+112.86)
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-0"
10' MIN.
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-23 4"
17
16
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
3
2
1
8
5
6
3
1
EAST ELEVATION ALONG KYNE ST
PROPERTY LINE
SETBACK
ELEVATION KEY
53'-73 4"
4
0
8
4
16'
SEE NOTE #1
20'-0" MIN. HOLD CORNER
7
REFER TO 1/R-A3.01 FOR
ELEVATION BEYOND
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
R-A3.02
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
04/10/2020
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION SUBMITTAL
MU3
ENLARGED BUILDING ELEVATIONS
1 / 8 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A

--- page 142 ---
55' HEIGHT LIMIT
T.O. PLATE
51'-8"
SECOND FLOOR F.F.E.
12'-2"
THIRD FLOOR F.F.E.
22'-4"
FOURTH FLOOR F.F.E.
32'-6"
GROUND FLOOR F.F.E.
0'-0" (+115.5)
LOWER ROOF / LOFT F.F.E.
42'-8"
10'-2"
9'-0"
10'-2"
10'-2"
12'-2"
12'-0"
GRADE PLANE
-2'-2" (+112.86)
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
8'-9"
17'-6"
24'-0"
6
7
10
9
8
12
11
24'-0"
17'-6"
24'-0"
24'-23 4"
13
4
3
2
ELEVATION KEY
1
10' MIN.
PROPERTY LINE
SETBACK
1
WEST ELEVATION ALONG COURTYARD
53'-73 4"
3
2
1
0
8
4
16'
LEGEND & NOTES
1
SMOOTH FINISH STUCCO
2
CEMENTITIOUS SIDING
3
4
9" THICK ANODIZED METAL
BALCONY PARTITION
VINYL SLIDING DOORS & WINDOWS
5
12" METAL "BROW"
6
GLASS GUARDRAIL AT ROOF DECK
7
ANODIZED ALUMINUM PANELS
8
METAL GUARDRAIL AT BALCONY
NOTE #1:
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE & ELEVATOR
BULKHEAD
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE (PER BAY
MEADOWS PHASE ii DESIGN GUIDELINES AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS, ITEM II.7): THE
PROPOSED ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE MARKS
THE MID-BLOCK PASSAGE, EMPHASIZES THE
BUILDING ENTRY, AND PROVIDES A MASSING
BREAK FROM GROUND TO SKY ALONG THE
WEST  KYNE STREET FRONTAGE. THE
VERTICAL ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE
INTEGRATES AN OPEN PERGOLA SHADE
STRUCTURE AT THE ROOF DECK.
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES ARE AN
EXCEPTION TO THE BUILDING HEIGHT LIMIT.
ELEVATOR BULKHEADS ARE EXCEPTIONS TO
MAXIMUM BULK RESTRICTIONS PER SAN
MATEO CITY CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL CODE
ITEM 27.02.060 USE AND BULK RESTRICTIONS.
SEE NOTE #1
LOWER HEIGHT ZONE
REFER TO 1/R-A3.01 FOR
ELEVATION BEYOND
PEDESTRIAN PASSAGE
6
2
7
R-A3.03
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
04/10/2020
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION SUBMITTAL
MU3
ENLARGED BUILDING ELEVATIONS
1 / 8 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A

--- page 143 ---
DRAW OR PLACE XREF AT 0,0 IN MODEL SPACE
55' HEIGHT LIMIT
T.O. PLATE
51'-8"
SECOND FLOOR F.F.E.
12'-2"
THIRD FLOOR F.F.E.
22'-4"
FOURTH FLOOR F.F.E.
32'-6"
GROUND FLOOR F.F.E.
0'-0" (+115.5)
LOWER ROOF / LOFT F.F.E.
42'-8"
10'-2"
9'-0"
10'-2"
10'-2"
12'-2"
2
1
20'-0"
10'-0"
40'-0"
5'-0"
5'-0"
A
B
C
D
E
5'-0"
5'-0"
40'-0"
10'-0"
PROPERTY LINE
C
B
A
D
E
20'-0"
F
F
SETBACK
PROPERTY LINE
SETBACK
ELEVATION KEY
2
NORTH ELEVATION ALONG DERBY ST
2
SOUTH ELEVATION ALONG LANDING ST
53'-73 4"
2
1
3
3
1
5
1
1
0
8
4
16'
ELEVATION KEY
LEGEND & NOTES
1
SMOOTH FINISH STUCCO
2
CEMENTITIOUS SIDING
3
4
9" THICK ANODIZED METAL
BALCONY PARTITION
VINYL SLIDING DOORS & WINDOWS
5
12" METAL "BROW"
6
GLASS GUARDRAIL AT ROOF DECK
7
ANODIZED ALUMINUM PANELS
8
METAL GUARDRAIL AT BALCONY
NOTE #1:
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE & ELEVATOR
BULKHEAD
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE (PER BAY
MEADOWS PHASE ii DESIGN GUIDELINES AND
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS, ITEM II.7): THE
PROPOSED ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE MARKS
THE MID-BLOCK PASSAGE, EMPHASIZES THE
BUILDING ENTRY, AND PROVIDES A MASSING
BREAK FROM GROUND TO SKY ALONG THE
WEST  KYNE STREET FRONTAGE. THE
VERTICAL ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE
INTEGRATES AN OPEN PERGOLA SHADE
STRUCTURE AT THE ROOF DECK.
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES ARE AN
EXCEPTION TO THE BUILDING HEIGHT LIMIT.
ELEVATOR BULKHEADS ARE EXCEPTIONS TO
MAXIMUM BULK RESTRICTIONS PER SAN
MATEO CITY CHARTER AND MUNICIPAL CODE
ITEM 27.02.060 USE AND BULK RESTRICTIONS.
ELEVATION KEY
ELEVATION KEY
SEE NOTE #1
SEE NOTE #1
LOWER HEIGHT ZONE
7
7
20'-0" MIN. HOLD CORNER
20'-0" MIN. HOLD CORNER
R-A3.04
© Hart Howerton 2020
The designs and concepts shown are the sole property of Hart Howerton
and may not be used without the prior written consent of Hart Howerton.
Project No: 19-504
N
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
SUBJECT TO THE BAY MEADOWS
PHASE II DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
B  A  Y   M  E  A  D  O  W  S       II
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
04/10/2020
PRELIMINARY PLANNING APPLICATION SUBMITTAL
MU3
ENLARGED BUILDING ELEVATIONS
1 / 8 " = 1 ' - 0 "
A

--- page 144 ---
APNs
Land Area (Current Proposal)
Original Approval
(PA07‐054)
Proposed
(PA20‐016)
Maximum Permitted  or  
Minimum Required
Original Approval
(PA07‐054)
Proposed
(PA20‐016)
Maximum Permitted  or  
Minimum Required
Original Approval
(PA07‐054)
Proposed
(PA20‐016)
Maximum Permitted  or  
Minimum Required
Floor Area
1st Floor Retail
11,814 SF
7,425 SF
Req'd Along S. Delaware
12,361 SF
5,122 SF
Req'd Along S. Delaware
‐
1st Floor Restaurant
3,000 SF
‐
‐
‐
‐
Office
15,509 SF
184,020 SF
12,906 SF
120,878 SF
‐
Residential
‐
‐
‐
‐
110,599 SF
61,740 SF
Garage (Excluded)
‐
‐
‐
‐
50,700 SF
‐
Total
30,023 SF
191,445 SF
191,445 SF
25,267 SF
126,000 SF
126,000 SF
164,731 SF
61,740 SF
71,457 SF
Floor Area Ratio
1.8
2.5
2.5
1.7
3.0
3.0
2.2
2.6
3.0
Residential Units
‐
‐
‐
‐
‐
‐
76
57
Density defined by FAR if block 
is developed as mixed‐use; 50 
du/acre if block is developed as 
residential only
Residential Density
‐
‐
‐
‐
‐
‐
50 du/acre
NA
Density defined by FAR if block 
is developed as mixed‐use; 50 
du/acre if block is developed as 
residential only
Building Plateline Height
41'‐6"
Varies (up to 55')
55'‐0"
40'‐6"
55'‐0"
55'‐0"
54'‐6"
53'‐8"
55'‐0"
Stories 
2 + Mezzanine
4 stories
None Specified
2 + Mezzanine
4 stories
None Specified
2 to 5
4 stories w/ loft
None Specified
Setbacks
Front
0
Varies, as shown on site plan
0' (Delaware St.)
0
Varies, as shown on site plan
0' (Delaware St.)
10'
10'
10' (Kyne St.)
N. Street Side
1'‐11'
Varies, as shown on site plan
0'‐10' (28th Ave.)
0
Varies, as shown on site plan
0'‐10' (Derby Ave.)
10'
10'
10' (Derby Ave.)
S. Street Side
0
Varies, as shown on site plan
0'‐10' (Derby Ave.)
0
Varies, as shown on site plan
0'‐10' (Landing Ave.)
10'
10'
10' (Landing Ave.)
Rear
0
Varies, as shown on site plan
10' (Kyne St.)
0
Varies, as shown on site plan
NA (no street at rear)
7'
Varies, as shown on site plan
NA (no street at rear)
Parking
None Specified
2.94/1,000 SF
None Specified
1.52/1,000 SF
(1 stall/bedroom)
Standard
379
160
78
47
Standard Tandem
27
9
Compact
168
25
28
8
Accessible
16
7
4
4
Visitor
On street
On street
Parking Total
563
192
285 provided (287 required for 
block uses, at 2.75 stalls per 1000 
SF office & 4 stalls per 1000 SF 
Comm.)
68
Loading
25' Loading Zone 7 am to 9 am 
on Derby Ave.
(2) 10' x 25' enclosed loading 
stalls
(2) 10' x 25' loading stalls
25' Loading Zone 7 am to 5 pm on 
Kyne St.
(2) 10' x 25' enclosed loading 
stalls
(2) 10' x 25' loading stalls
(1) 12.5' x 30' loading berth
On‐street loading
(1) 10' x 25' loading stall
Bicycle Parking
Short‐Term
None Specified
26
13
None Specified
12
9
500 SF
4
0.5 to 0.15 per unit
Long‐Term
None Specifiied
20
19
475 SF Area
14
13
(no total number of racks specified)
59
1.0 to 1.5 per unit
MIXED USE BLOCK 2 (MU2) COMMERCIAL PROGRAM
040‐031‐210, ‐220
MIXED USE BLOCK 3 (MU3) COMMERCIAL PROGRAM
Minimum requirements will be 
analyzed in Parking 
Management Plan 
040‐031‐230, ‐240
23,819 SF
MIXED USE BLOCK 3 (MU3) RESIDENTIAL PROGRAM
040‐031‐230, ‐240
76,578 SF
42,000 SF
Minimum requirements will 
be analyzed in Parking 
Management Plan 
Minimum requirements will be 
analyzed in Parking 
Management Plan 
COMMERCIAL DATA FORM
PA Name:  Bay Meadows Phase II SPAR #1 MU2 and MU3 Modification Pre‐Application
PA #:  PA‐2020‐016 (Modification of PA07‐054)
Addresses: To be assigned
Zoning:  BMSP (Bay Meadows Specific Plan)

--- page 145 ---
Figure IT-130
MU 2 Key Plan

CUT LIT,

Figure IT-131
Example of Vertical Expression: Fenestration

Figure IT-132
Example of Vertical Expression:
Facade Articulation

Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines and Development Standards

11.17 MU 2

Ground floor Retail or active use (required)
Delaware Street
Upper floors Residential or Commercial
Ground floor Commercial, lobbies
28th & 29th Avenues ; ” ”
Upper floors Residential or commercial
All floors Hotel, Apartment, Condominium or Loft

* A ground floor pedestrian passage Is permitted to connect Delaware Street to
Street A. If it occurs, the ground floor should be designed as an active frontage
with windows and doors. There should be an unobstructed path and view
directly from Street A to Delaware Street. The passage may be covered beginning
at 15 feet above sidewalk level for a maximum of 60% of the building's depth.

Delaware Street Frontage Criteria

* Buildings must include vertical expression devices to break up the largely
horizontal massing. See Figures II 131 and II-132.
Required Architectural Feature must be visible from 28th Avenue.
Ground floor retail or active use required. A minimum of approximately 75% of
linear feet of the Delaware Street frontage shall be glazed with clear (untinted,
non-reflective) glass.
Vibrant retail and active frontages with varied, incremental storefronts are encouraged.
Stepbacks are allowed above the ground floor and encouraged above the 3rd
floor within 10' of the Property Line.

* A combination of flat roofs and sloping roofs with broad overhangs is preferred.

Street A Frontage Criteria

* A minimum of one floor underground parking is required. Should additional parking
be necessary, above-grade parking shall be shielded from Street A by occupied
space a minimum of 25 feet thick at the ground level.

* Required Architectural Feature must be visible from 28th Avenue.

* One-story base expression required.

* A break from sidewalk to sky should occur in the middle third of the Street A
frontage as indicated in Figure |-134. Eaves and other allowable encroachments
may encroach upon this zone.

* Private open spaces (patios, decks) should not be deeper than ten feet if located
below the top floor.

Step-out or Juliet balconies are permitted.

Large windows are encouraged along the street to open to the park.

Facades should be relatively flat to provide uniformity among Blocks.

Lobby entrances are encouraged.

A street-facing courtyard may occur. Such a courtyard shall have a maximum width
of 50 feet at the first two stories where It opens to Street A.

December 12, 2006 Chapter II: Building Placement,

Massing and Access


--- page 146 ---
Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines and Development Standards

28th and 29th Avenues Frontage Criteria

¢ Lower height zone on 29th Avenue shall be one story lower than contiguous frontage.

¢ If located below the top floor, private open spaces (patios, decks or balconies)
should not be deeper than ten feet if located below the top floor.

* Step-out or Juliet balconies are permitted.

6)

ARCHITECTURAL

FEATURE =~
REQUIRED
RETAIL/ACTIVE USE
AT GROUND |FLOOR
i
2
a
@
a
=
a
©
a
PERMITTED
PEDESTRIAN
PASSAGE IN MIDDLE

THIRD OF BLOCK

FACE

MAX. ONE CURB CUT,
MIN, 60! MAX. 38)

70’ MAX.
(NO SETBACK}

Za

Mac ~ sw sersacx
+ # #

Lo

——— CURB LIN

FEATURE

PROPER

SETBACK

il

fe

! MIN, 60!

CURB CUTS,
MAX, 35! EACH, MIN, 50' APART

Street A-West

Preferred
Commercial
Entrances

Preferred Retail
Entrances

Preferred
Residential
Entrances

RSS Curb cut zone

29th Avenue
or

> DD

Figure II-133
MU 2 Building Placement

December 12, 2006

Chapter II: Building Placement, I-47
Massing and Access


--- page 147 ---
Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines and Development Standards

SOLD CORNER,
HOLD CORNER, O! MIN

60' MIN. eee

28th Avenue

B38) PELE ocan SEEM
BBL POR eee | LL cura ne
° RVC AIRS PROPERTY LINE

SETBACK LINE

AK ees

QN STREET A-VWHST IN
IDDLE THIRD O|
BLOCK FACE:

IDTH: 20' MIN.750' MAX,

ENCOURAGED srt

Delaware Street

60' MIN,

HOLD CORNER,
HOLD CORNER, Street A-West

HOLD CORNER” 29th Avenue HOLD'COfNER, ;
60! MIN, 20 MIN. SSK] 45 Stories
_ a oe a
6 RQ QQA 24 Stories
Figure II-134
MU 2 Building Massing

Development Block MU 2 Build-To Zone Allowable Encroachments
|

et LS ee
po bowerr Floors Upper Floors rs ee

Floor 1- Min. 80% within 3'
of Setback Line; Floors 2-3 Floors 4-5 - Max. 90% 1st Hoor, 3rd
Min. 70% within 3' of within 10' of Setback Line Floor
Setback Line

28th Avenue

Floors +3 - Min. 75% within Floors 4-5 - Min. 50% 1st Hoor, 3rd
3' of Setback Line within 10' of Setback Line
28th Avenue Floors +3 - Min. 80% within] Floors 4-5 - Min. 40% Not reanree in
10' of Setback Line within 10' of Setback Line 9
zone
Minimum 80% within 5' of |Top Floor - Min. 70% within} 1st Hoor, Top 13

*Required expression lines from adjacent frontages shall wrap onto this frontage for at least the "hold corner" distance
Table II-7
MU 2 Massing Chart

Il - 48 December 12, 2006 Chapter II: Building Placement,
Massing and Access


--- page 148 ---
Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines and Development Standards

Figure IT-135 Figure I-136
Appropriate ground floor retail expression Simple plan geometry and roof with flat
with upper floor commercial uses roofs and broad overhangs

Figure IT-137 Figure II-138
Appropriate consistency of buildings, Appropriate shallow step-out or
appropriate baleony, roof and loggia articulation Juliet balconies

Figure IT-139 Figure ITI-140
An example of an inviting pedestrian passage Appropriate break in massing on Street A

December 12, 2006 Chapter II: Building Placement, Il-49
Massing and Access


--- page 149 ---
Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines and Development Standards

11.18 MU 3

Ground floor Retail or active use (required)
Delaware Street ; "
Upper floors Residential or Commercial
29th & 30th Ground floor Commercial, Lobbies
Avenues Upper floors Residential or Commercial
Street A All floors Residential or Commercial
Pedestrian Ground floor Retail or Commercial

Easements Upper floors Residential or Commercial

General Criteria

* The ground floor of the required pedestrian easement shall be designed as an
active frontage with windows and doors. There shall be an unobstructed path
and view directly from Street A to Delaware Street. The width between building
faces may be wider than the path dimension to allow transition zones between
the public path and interior uses. The easement may be covered beginning at

Figure II-141 15 feet above sidewalk level for a maximum of 60% of the building's depth.
MU 3 Key Plan The pedestrian passage should be designed to encourage pedestrian use, with
attention paid to pedestrian perception of safety, views to and within it that
encourage its use, and lighting to enhance pedestrian and cyclist visibility, comfort
MTTTLT TITTY and security.
— r cr rT n n i r Delaware Street Frontage Criteria

| * Ground floor retail or active use required. A minimum of approximately 75% of
CL [| [| [| [] [] L | linear feet of the Delaware Street frontage shall be glazed with clear (untinted,

non-reflective) glass.
L ! . l * Vibrant retail and active frontages with varied, incremental storefronts are encouraged.

* Setbacks are allowed above the ground floor and encouraged above the 3rd floor

Figure II-142 within 10' of the Property Line.

Example of Vertical Expression: Fenestration | * Buildings must include vertical expression devices to break up the largely
horizontal massing. See Figures | 142 and I-143.

* A combination of flat roofs and sloping roofs with broad overhangs is preferred.

29th and 30th Avenues Frontage Criteria

* Step-out or Juliet balconies are permitted.

* Private open spaces (patios, decks or balconies) should not be deeper than 10 feet
if located below the top floor.
* Lower height zone shall be one story lower than contiguous frontage.

Figure IT-143
Example of Vertical Expression:
Facade Articulation

TI-50 December 12, 2006 Chapter II: Building Placement,
Massing and Access


--- page 150 ---
Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines and Development Standards

Street A Frontage Criteria

One-story base expression required.

Private open spaces (patios, decks) should not be deeper than ten feet if located
below the top floor.

Step-out or Juliet balconies are permitted.

Large windows are encouraged along Street A to open to the park.

Facades should be relatively flat to provide uniformity among Blocks.

Lobby entrances are encouraged.

A street-facing courtyard may only occur along Street A. Such a courtyard shall

have a maximum width of 50 feet at the first two stories where it opens to Street A.
* A minimum of one floor of underground parking is required. Additional above-grade

parking shall be shielded from Street A by occupied space a minimum of 25 feet

thick at the ground level.

vv MAX. TWO CURB CUTS VO ”
MIN, 50! MAX. 35! EACH, MIN, 50!
+ MIN SO'APART b 29th Avenue

70! MAX.
(NO SETBACK) CURB LINE
PROPERTY LINE
SETBACK LINE

REQUIRED >
RETAIL/ACTIVE USE
AT GROUNDIFLOOR| = | MU 3 1

7 oO ®

o qt =

© L

B | Gt owe ~~~ ~~ <

w ~

2) lope eee ®

oo = ra]

ZLE 5

o

Oo
REQUIRED
PEDESTRIAN
EASEMENT IIN
MIDDLE THIRD OF
BLOCK FAC
ALIGN WITH RES 4
WITHIN 15"

mercial
- 30th Avenue & Entrances ;
MIN. 50! MAX. TWO CURB CUTS, MIN, 50! Aa Preferred Retail
: : no,
MIN. 50! APART Preferred
ZX Residential
4) Entrances
Curb cut zone
Figure IT-144
MU 3 Building Placement
December 12, 2006 Chapter II: Building Placement, Il-51

Massing and Access


--- page 151 ---
Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines and Development Standards

_A ON ene
HOLD CORNER, HOLD CORNER,

60' MIN. 29th Avenue fo ee
|

g Ae
=
cz °o
g2 [8
98 2
o x
oo =
CURB LINE
PROPERTY|LINE
7 SETBACK LINE
D 7
o ao
B =
® zt
find =
= ®
Rc} £
oO Ww
Oo
Fa )
g
a8 8
g
1 2

Figure IT-145
MU 3 Building Massing
xeon Lie Allowable Encroachments
eee LS
power Floors Upper Floors es ee
29th Avenue Hloors 1-3 - Min. 80% within Floors 4-5 - Min. 40% Ist Floor, 3rd
10' of Setback Line within 10' of Setback Line Floor
Delaware Street Minimum 80% within 5' of |Top Floor - Min. 70% within] 1st Floor, Top
Property Line 10' of Property Line Floor (See 1.5)
*Required expression lines trom adjacent frontages shall wrap onto this frontage for at least the "hold corner’ distance

encom 30th Avenue loBinen EXXXXX] 48 Stories
Table II-8

60! MIN. 20! MIN.
® ~ +7 EE SSN
|
. _. . Not required in
30th Avenue Hloors 1-3 - Min. 80% within Floors 4-5 - Min. 40% lower height
10' of Setback Line within 10' of Setback Line at
MU 3 Massing Chart

TI -52 December 12, 2006 Chapter II: Building Placement,
Massing and Access


--- page 152 ---
Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines and Development Standards

Figure IT-146 Figure I-147
Appropriate ground floor retail expression Simple plan geometry with flat roofs and
with upper floor commercial uses broad overhangs

Figure IT-148 Figure II-149
Appropriate consistency of buildings, Varied building massing mid-block, with
appropriate balcony, roof and loggia articulation full-height expression at corner

a = } a
. fa pera |

Figure IT-150 Figure IJ-151

Appropriate shallow step-out or An example of an inviting pedestrian passage
Juliet balconies
December 12, 2006 Chapter II: Building Placement, Il-58

Massing and Access


--- page 153 ---
WILSON
MEANY
SULLIVAN

March 25, 2008

Ms. Darcy Forsell

Senior Planner

City of San Mateo

Department of Community Development
330 West 20" Avenue

San Mateo, CA 94403-1388

Re: — Bay Meadows
Guidelines Exceptions List SPAR 1

Dear Darcy,

The following is a listing, by Block, of the Guidelines exceptions contained within the SPAR 1
drawings. The reasons for each exception and the description of how the design intent of the
relevant Design Guidelines items or conditions is met are also included with each listing. These
descriptions are in support of Section 1.2 of the Bay Meadows Phase II Design Guidelines and
Development Standards, which provides that an application may be approved if it is found that the
ptoposed design is consistent with the overall design intent and goals of the Design Guidelines and
the Specific Plan Amendment even though one or mote specified items or conditions are not
satisfied.

Please do not hesitate to contact with any questions or comments you may have.

Sincerely,

Keith Orlesky

cc. Janice Thacher
Chris Meany
Kim Havens
Matthew Priest


--- page 154 ---
Guideline Exceptions

STA1

Curb cut width p. II-28, Figure II-83
The southernmost curb cut on Delaware Street exceeds the 35’
maximum width.

The southern curb cut is proposed to be 36’ wide. The additional
width meets DPW traffic standards for the volume of cars and street
geometry at this entrance, and will not create a significant
impediment to cyclists or pedestrians.

Allowable Encroachments _p. II-16, paragraph (6)
A screen wall on the parking structure encroaches in excess of the
allowed four feet on the Delaware frontage.

The proposed parking structure design incorporates a curved
architectural screen wall. A 40 foot long portion of this screen wall
extends across the Setback Line (SL) in excess of the four feet
allowed in the Design Guidelines (DG). This projection is used to
form a curve in the exterior architecture that is consistent with other
curves on the parking structure and the office building, and which is
used to disguise the standard rectangular garage footprint. The
encroachment does not extend beyond the Property Line (PL). This
encroachment allows the garage to be positioned with enough room
for an auto/service/EVA roadway between the west side of the
garage and the rail right of way, while maintaining pedestrian access
and the landscape setback along Delaware.

p. II-16

The office building projects across the Setback Line along Delaware
and the Property Line along 28". The nature of this projection (the
“prow” at the corner of 28" Delaware) is not strictly defined in the
Guidelines.

Approximately 20 lineal feet of the upper floors (14 feet above
ground level) along the 28" frontage angle out across the PL to a
maximum encroachment of four feet. Approximately 48 lineal feet
of the upper floors (14 feet above ground level) along the Delaware
frontage angle out across the SL to a maximum encroachment of
four feet. This architectural projection is used as a device to
emphatically meet the DG requirement to hold and mark the corner
at this important intersection.

The five westernmost columns supporting the upper floors of the
office building on the 28" Avenue facade sit within the required 1’
easement adjacent to the Right of Way. All columns closer to the
tracks progressively step back from the easement. In addition a
minimum of 5’ additional clear and weather protected pedestrian
circulation area is available between the columns and the building

2

Four Mmbareadero® Center Suite. 2200" San Francisca CA 94111 © Telephone 415.905.5300 ® Facsimile 415.905.3350 WWW WMEPATINETS.COM


--- page 155 ---
facade, creating a significant net increase to the space available for
pedestrians on 28" Avenue.

STA 2

Building Height p. II-11, Figure I-44, and p. II-32, Figure II-94
The free standing retail building (STA 2b)does not have the specified
two story minimum height.

The overall height of the building (from 18’ to 28’) is consistent with
the height implied in the specified two story minimum, and creates
the desired volumetric characteristic of the street.

Building Depth p. II-32, Figure II-94
The depth of the free standing retail building is not the specified 60’
minimum (Site B).

The provided 50’ depth is adequate to hold the corner, accommodate
viable retail uses, and achieve the desired distinction in massing
between Site a and Site b. It also increases the size and quality of the
usable open space between the building and the office building
behind it.

Ground Floor Parking p- I-30, General Criteria
Parking at-grade is not separated from the 28th Avenue right-of-way
(Site STA 2a).

The at-grade parking will be screened behind a facade that is treated
as an extension of the rest of the building to support the pedestrian
experience at ground level.

Curb Cut Width p. II-31, Figure II-91
The minimum 50’ separation between cutb cuts along Derby (29")
Avenue has not been met.

The Guidelines require a maximum of two 35’ maximum wide curb
cuts with a 50’ minimum separation. Since the timing or
configuration of the proposed undercrossings of the tracks at 28"
and 31“ Avenue are unknown the service and garage entrances
allowed for in the Design Guidelines for STA Blocks 2, 3 & 4 on 28"
and 31" have been consolidated onto Derby (29") and Landing (30")
Avenues. STA 2 includes two curb cuts of 25’ and 26’ width on
Derby Avenue, with a 30’ separation zone between them. This design
reduces the total amount of area devoted to vehicle entry and pulls
these access points as far as possible from the potential future train
station portal at the tracks, and the landscaped courtyard that exists
between the office building and the separate retail building fronting
onto Delaware Street. The 30’ separation zone between the vehicular
service entrance and the garage entrance is protected by ground cover
3

four Embarcaderos Center Suite 22008 San Francisca CAV 94711 © Poephone 415.905.5300 ® Facsimile 415.905.5350 WWW WTSDATENCHS.COM


--- page 156 ---
landscaped zones on both sides of the sidewalk that provide for and
clearly designate pedestrian only zones and that minimizes the
amount of paving around these curb cuts.

Allowable Encroachments _p. I-16, paragraph (6)
The encroachment of the window frame element on the Delaware
facade is not strictly defined in the Design Guidelines.

The upper three floors of the office building facade that fronts
Delaware Street is outlined with a large masonry frame that projects
beyond the PL 3’, at a minimum height of 16’ above the sidewalk.
This architectural projection does not include occupiable floor space,
and serves to hold and emphasize the corner and to provide a
dramatic break between the ground floor active use and the office
uses above.

Build-To Zone p. II-32, Table II-2
The total Block frontage does not have the specified 80% minimum
built within five feet of PL along 28" or Delaware.

77% of the office building frontage to 28" Avenue is within 5’ of the
PL because the building includes a setback corner at the west PL
where the building abuts the tracks. This setback reduces the impact
of the full four story massing along 28", opens the corner for
visibility and access to and from access points to a potential relocated
station platform and grade separation at 28th, and provides a
landscaped storm water treatment zone.

50% of the total Block frontage to Delaware is built at the ground
floor to within 5’ of the PL. 93% of the Delaware frontage of the
retail building (STA2b) is built to the Delaware PL. 0% of the office
building (STA2a) is built to within 5’ of the PL. The office building
frontage to Delaware is pulled back 10’ behind the PL to increase the
pedestrian space available at the corner, and to dramatize the
overhanging projection of the upper floors that shelters this
expanded sidewalk area. The continuous active use zone at this
ground floor location meets the Guidelines intent for continuous
active use along Delaware, and the setback has the potential to allow
additional merchandise display or protected outdoor seating. The
impression to the pedestrian from further down or across the street
will be of the desired Delaware streetwall, as the upper floor facade
of the office building combined with the eaves and roof overhangs of
the retail building provide over 82% of mass built to within 5’ of the
PL.

4

hour Fobarcaderot Center Suite 2200" San Francisca CA 94111 © Toephone 415.905.5300 * Facsimile 443.905.3350 wow. wmspartners.com


--- page 157 ---
STA 3

Building Height p. II-11, Figure I-44, and p. II-35, Figure II-103
The free standing retail building (STA 3b) does not have the specified
two story minimum height.

The overall height of the building (from 18’ to 28’) is consistent with
the height implied in the specified two story minimum, and creates
the desired volumetric characteristic of the street.

Build to Zone p. II-35, Table II-3
The total Block frontage does not have the specified 80% minimum
built within five feet of PL along Delaware.

Together, the building facades of buildings STA 2a and STA 2b
achieve a Build-To of 75%. The 5% (or 16’) shortfall is created by
the separation of the two buildings to allow access to the recessed
lobby of the office building, and by the decision to allow a portion of
the volume beneath the southern overhanging roof of the retail
building to be an unenclosed outdoor dining area. This area does not
count as frontage measured in the Build-To calculation, but will
contribute to the desired continuity of activity along the Street.
Measured within the boundary of the office and retail buildings’ drip
line volume created by the broad overhangs and supporting columns
the Block total Build-To is 79%, providing the desired volumetric
consistency along the Block face.

Allowable Encroachments _p. I-16, paragraph (6)
The projection of the cornice at the top of the office building on the
Delaware facade exceeds the 4’ encroachment maximum into the
right of way. The north edge of the roof on the retail building
exceeds the 4’ encroachment maximum into the private right of way
of Derby Avenue.

The cornice of the office building projects a total of 6’-6” into the
Right of Way. The scale of this element is in keeping with the overall
mass and height of the building, provides a valuable element of
ornament and detail to the streetscape, and does not interfere with
the use of the public right of way.

The roof of the retail buildings projects a total of 5’2” over the Derby
Avenue Property Line. This overhang is effective in reducing the
perceived width of this private right of way, serves to increase the
continuity of the street along Delaware, and provides an element of
weather protection for pedestrians. At its lowest height it is 18° above
street level, and does not interfere with the use of the public right of
way.

5

Four Fembarcadero® Center Suite 2200" San Francisca CA 94111 © Toephone 415.905.5300 ® Facsimile 415.905.3350 wove w.wmespartners.com


--- page 158 ---
Curb Cut Width p. II-34, Figure II-102
The minimum 50’ separation between cutb cuts along Derby (29")
Avenue has not been met.

The Guidelines require a maximum of two 35’ maximum wide curb
cuts with a 50’ minimum separation. STA 3a includes two curb cuts
of 20’width, with an 8’ separation zone between them on Derby
Avenue. This design reduces the total amount of area devoted to
vehicle entry and pulls these access points as far as possible from the
potential future train station portal at the tracks, and the landscaped
courtyard that exists between the office building and the separate
retail building fronting onto Delaware Street.

STA 4

Building Height p. II-11, Figure IT-44, and p. II-38, Figure II-112
The free standing retail building (STA 4b) does not have the specified
two story minimum height.

The overall height of the building (from 20’ to 28’) is consistent with
the height implied in the specified two story minimum, and creates
the desired volumetric characteristic of the street.

Building Depth p. II-38, Figure II-112
The depth of the free standing retail building is not the specified 60’
minimum (Site B).

The provided 50 depth is adequate to hold the corners,
accommodate viable retail uses and achieve the desired distinction in
massing between Site a and Site b. It also increases the size and
quality of the usable open space between the building and the office
building behind it.

Ground Floor Parking p. I-36, General Criteria
Parking at-grade is not separated from the 31st Avenue right-of-way
(Site a).

The at-grade parking is screened behind a facade that is treated as an
extension of the rest of the building to support the pedestrian
experience at ground level.

Curb Cut Width p. II-37, Figure II-111
The minimum 50’ separation between curb cuts along Landing (30")
Avenue has not been met.

The Guidelines require a maximum of two 35’ maximum wide curb
cuts with a 50’ minimum separation. Since the timing or
configuration of the proposed under crossings of the tracks at 28"
and 31" Avenue are unknown the service and garage entrances

6

hour Limbarcadero® Center Surte 22008 San Prancisca CA 94111 # Telephone 415.905.5300 © Facsimile 415.905.5350 WW WMSPATNETS.COM


--- page 159 ---
allowed for in the Design Guidelines for STA Blocks 2, 3 & 4 on 28"
and 31* have been consolidated onto Derby (29) and Landing (30°)
Avenues. STA 4a includes two curb cuts of 27’width on Landing
Avenue, with a 30’ separation zone between them. This design
reduces the total amount of area devoted to vehicle entry and pulls
these access points as far as possible from the potential future train
station portal at the tracks, and the landscaped courtyard that exists
between the office building and the separate retail building fronting
onto Delaware Street. The 30’ zone between the service entrance
and the garage entrance is protected by ground cover landscaped
zones on both sides of the sidewalk that provide for and clearly
designate pedestrian only zones and minimizes the amount of paving
around these curb cuts.

Build-To Zone p- II-38, Table II-4
The total Block frontage does not have the specified 80% minimum
built within five feet of PL along Delaware or within 9 of 31*

Avenue.

Together, the building facades of buildings STA 4a and STA 4b
achieve a Build-To of 56% on the Delaware Street frontage. The
24% shortfall is created by the separation of the two buildings to
allow access to the recessed lobby of the office building, by the
decision to allow a portion of the volume beneath the southern
overhanging roof of the retail building to be an unenclosed outdoor
dining area, and by the undulation of the office building facade
which, though very clearly addressing the street, moves both in front
of and behind the zone 5’ from the PL. The area underneath the
overhanging roof of the free standing retail building (STA 4b) does
not count as frontage measured in the Build-To calculation, but will
contribute to the desired continuity of activity along the Street. The
undulating curve of the office building was not anticipated by the
Guidelines. Although its geometry makes the lineal frontage specified
in the Guidelines difficult to achieve, it creates the continuous street
frontage and presence at the corner the Guidelines imply. Measured
within the boundary of the office and retail buildings’ drip line
volume created by the broad overhangs and supporting columns the
Block total Build-To is 86%, providing the desired volumetric
consistency along the Block face.

20% of the ground floor office frontage along 31* Avenue is built
within 9’ of the PL. This is because the curved shape of the office
building pulls it away from the PL in certain areas and at the corner,
decreasing the frontage in the Build-To zone. The setback distance,
which is measured from the facade line, not from the columns that
create the arcade along the base, is used to increase the area available
to pedestrians along 31° Avenue. The building shape adds
architectural interest and character to the pedestrian experience as
well as enlarging the view corridor from town center to the train
station. The office floors above this arcade have 91% of their

7

Four Fobarcadero® Center Suit. 2200 San Francisca CA 94111 87 ‘ephone 415.905.5300 ® Facsimile 415.905.5350 www. wimspartners.com


--- page 160 ---
facades within 9” of the PL, demonstrating the volumetric enclosure
the building provides along this Avenue.

Allowable Encroachments _p. II-16, paragraph (6)
The encroachment of the curved facade element at the corner of
Delaware and 31* is not strictly defined in the Design Guidelines.
The north edge of the roof on the retail building exceeds the 4
encroachment maximum into the private right of way of Derby
Avenue.

The Delaware Avenue and 31" Street frontages of the office building
have curved walls that create a projection across the PL. The
maximum encroachment is four feet or less, and has a minimum
clearance above the sidewalk of 16’. The curved facade moves across
and back away from the PL to provide a sheltered arcade for
pedestrian traffic.

The roof of the retail buildings projects a total of 6°9” over the
Landing Avenue Property Line. This overhang is effective in
reducing the perceived width of this private right of way, serves to
increase the continuity of the street along Delaware, and provides an
element of weather protection for pedestrians. At its lowest height it
is 20‘ above street level, and does not interfere with the use of the
public right of way.

STA 5

Ground Floor Parking p. II-39, General Criteria
Parking at-grade is not separated from the 31st Avenue right-of-way
(Site A).

The at-grade parking is screened behind a facade that is treated as an
extension of the rest of the building to support the pedestrian
experience at ground level.

Curb Cut Width p- I-40, Figure II-120
The maximum 35’ width of a curb cut onto Delaware Street has been
exceeded.

Since the timing or configuration of the proposed undercrossing of
the tracks at 31° Avenue ate unknown the service and garage
entrances allowed for in the Design Guidelines for STA Block 5 on
31" Avenue and on Delaware Street have been consolidated into a
single 53’ wide curb cut on Delaware Street. The combined curb cut
is located as far to the south as possible to minimize the impact to
the potential active ground floor use along Delaware Street at the 31°
and Delaware intersection, and includes a continuous extension of
the sidewalk paving material to signal pedestrian priority to vehicles
in this zone.

8

oar anbarcaderot Center Suit. 2200" Sin Prancisca CA 94711 © Telephone 415.905.5300 ® Facsimile 414.905.5350 WW SPACMENS.COM


--- page 161 ---
Build-To Zone p. I-41, Table II-5
The total Block frontage does not have the specified 80% minimum
built within five feet of SL along 31 Avenue.

The building has intentionally been pulled back approximately ten
feet from the SL to allow for an expanded landscaped strip along 31*
that allows flexibility for future grade separation and platform access
options, and which softens and enhances the pedestrian experience
while also opening up the view from the train station to town square.

MU 2

Building Height p. I-11, Figure II-44, and p. II-48, Figure II-134
The office and retail building does not have the specified four story
minimum height at the intersection of Delaware Street and 28th
Avenue (Site B).

The overall height (48° to top of parapet) is consistent with the
desired 4-story massing, holds the frontage against the Avenue, and
creates a three dimensional emphasis at the street corner.

Hold Corners p. II-48, Figure II-134
The comers of Delaware Street at 28th and Derby (29") Avenues are
not held the required 60’ depth (Site B).

The entire depth of the office and retail building holds the corners to
a depth of 50’ and creates the desired massing at the intersections,
and allows for viable retail or active uses to turn the corner to the
Avenues.

Build-To Zone p. II-48, Table II-7
Along 28th Avenue, the two buildings do not have the specified
minimum 80% first-floor Build-To within 3’ of the Setback Line
(Sites A & B). The retail building on Delaware does not meet the
requirement for 80% of its frontage to be within 5’ of the PL.

The geometry of the larger residential building (MU2 a) reflects the
entirely below grade parking garage on which it is built, and which
does not have a curve to follow the 28" Avenue Property Line.
However, both buildings reinforce the Block face along the curve of
28th Avenue, with a combined Build-To exceeding 92% within 10’ of
the Setback Line, thus creating the desired reinforcement of the 28th
Avenue corridor. The increased setback depth on the residential
building is used to allow additional landscaping along this edge.

The mixed use building on Delaware (MU 2b) has 78% of its

frontage within 5’ of the PL. The 2% shortfall is due to the width of

the paseo that has been provided, the setbacks within the body of the
9

hour Fbarcaderot Center Suite 22008 San Francisco CA 94111 © Toephone 415.905.5300 ® Facsimile 415.905.3350 ww wewmsparhnicrs.com


--- page 162 ---
building that allow the comers to be expressed, and the small corner
setback at the south side of the paseo that serves as an outdoor
seating and dining area.

Lower Height Zone p. II-48, Figure 134
Along Derby (29") Avenue, the 90’ maximum depth dimension of
the four story building along Delaware has been exceeded (MU 2a).

Instead of the specified 90’ dimension the Lower Height Zone along
Derby has been provided at a distance of 106 feet from the Kyne
Street (Street A-West) property line. The desired transition and
distinction of the primary frontage along Kyne Street from the
desired smaller scale on Derby Avenue has been met.

Allowable Encroachments _p. II-16, Figure I-57
Along 28" Avenue the minimum 5’ setback has been exceeded.

Along 28th Avenue, a narrow sliver of the basement garage
encroaches up to 10 inches into the minimum 5-foot setback.
However, a landscaped setback in front of a podium-top planter is
proposed at this location. The net effect visible from the public way
will be essentially identical to the configuration shown in Figure II-
57, providing a planted setback of at least 4-2” from the property
line along 28th Avenue.

MU 3

Allowable Encroachments _p. I-16, SectionII.5 Allowable Encroachments — Item (3)
Two Balconies on Kyne Street project more than the allowable 4’-0”
into the setback.

The 2 balconies are stacked one above the other within the
architectural screen element that projects in front of the building
immediately to the north of the pedestrian passage on the Kyne
Street frontage. To complement that architectural expression the
balconies project 2’ 3” further than the specified 4’-0”. This
extension does not materially impact pedestrians at street level, and
contributes useable open space above the street level that overlooks
the park.

Pedestrian Easement Cover _ p. II-50, General Criteria
The required through-block pedestrian easement is covered by two
pedestrian bridges at a height lower than 15’ (Sites A & B).

The Site A bridge is only 8’ wide and provides 12’ minimum
clearance underneath. The Site B bridge is only 10’ wide and
provides 11’-6” minimum clearance underneath. The pedestrian
easement is just over 219’ long, so the total overhead coverage is only

10

hour Embarcadero® Center Suite 22008 saa Francisca CA 94111 # Telephone 415.905.5300 * Facsimile 415.905.3350 wwwowmspartners.com


--- page 163 ---
Lower Height Zone

Hold Corners

MU 4
Build-To Zone

Hold Corner

hour embarcadcro Center Suite 2200)

8.2%. The proposed configuration creates the desired condition of
the pedestrian passage being airy and having only minor cover.

p. I-50, Derby (29") and Landing (30°) Avenues Frontage Criteria,
and p. II-52, Figure 145

Along Derby and Landing Avenues, the required Lower Height Zone
is more than one story lower than contiguous frontage (Site A).

The fact that the Lower Height Zone is two to three stories lower
than the 5-story contiguous frontage emphasizes the desited
transition from primary frontages along Kyne and Delaware Streets
to the secondary frontage of Derby and Landing Avenues.

p. I-52, Figure II-145
The corners of Delaware Street at Derby (29") and Landing (30°)
Avenues are not held the required 60’ (Site B).

The entire depth of the office and retail building holds the corners to
a depth of 50’ and creates the desired massing at the intersections,
and allows for viable retail or active uses to turn the corner to the
Avenues.

p. I-56, Table II-9
Along the View Corridor, more than 80% of the fourth floor is
within 10’ of the View Corridor and Town Square Easements.

98% of the fourth floor is within 10’ of the Property Line. This is the
desirable result of holding the building mass along the Linear Park
and then especially along the Town Square, where the additional
height provides a well proportioned enclosure of the Square.
However, the east end of the View Corridor facade (about 35% of
the total length of that facade) is not parallel to the View Corridor,
which has the effect of visually breaking the mass of the building
when seen from the View Corridor. The projecting roofs over the
bays along the remaining frontage complement this massing break,
and provide desirable visual interest along the building’s top along
the View Corridor.

p. II-56, Figure II-160
The corner of Delaware Street at Landing (30") Avenue is not held
the required 60’.

The entire depth of the office and retail building holds the corner to
a depth of 50’ and creates the desired massing at the intersection, and
allows for viable retail or active uses to turn the corner to the
Avenues.

11

# San Francisca CA 94111 ® Telephone 415.905.5300 ® Facsimile 415.905.3350 WIV WM SPATHNCTS.COM


--- page 164 ---
RES 7

Architectural Feature p. I-11, Figure IT-44; p. II-77, General Criteria; p. II-78, Figure II-
207; and p. II-79, Figure II-210
The required Architectural Feature on the Town Squate is at the
31st Avenue corner rather than the View Corridor corner.

In the proposed location and configuration as a tower, the
Architectural Feature anchors the corner of Delaware Street and 31st
Avenue and will be visible from a distance, reinforcing the desired
urban character of the Town Square.

Building Height p. I-11, Figure II-44, and p. II-79, Figure II-210
The building height along the View Corridor between the Linear Park
and the Town Square is 5 stories rather than 4 stories.

The extension of the allowable 5 story height on the View Corridor
axis to the frontage along the Town Square reinforces the desired
urban character of Delaware Street and the Town Squate and
provides improved emphasis and visibility of the Square to 31*
Avenue and the Caltrain station users there.

Hold Corner p- II-79, Figure II-210
The corner of Delaware Street at 31st Avenue is not held the
required 60’.

The placement of the tower provides the desired strong corner
condition at this location.

Build-To p. II-79, Table II-16
Proposed Build-To percentages along the View Corridor and the
Town Square are lower than those specified.

At the lower floors facing the View Corridor, 23% is within 5’ of the
Setback Line as a result of providing private open space in front of all
ground-floor units. 87% of the frontage is within 16’ of the property
line. The resulting View Corridor streetwall produces a clear and
consistent definition of the View Corridor space in conjunction with
a rich landscape, thus achieving the desired character for pedestrians
using the View Corridor.

At the Town Square lower floors, the proposed design provides
80.5% within 3’ of the Setback Line. The deviation from the
specified 100% is created by the setback that helps to define the
corner tower, and a setback at the intersection with the View
Corridor that helps the building turn that corner. As the proposed
building provides a strong sense of enclosure to this edge of the
“urban room” while providing a pergola at the upper stories as
encouraged by the Delaware Street and the Town Square Frontage
Criteria on page II-77, the desired spatial condition is satisfied.

12

hour Eobarcadcrot Center Suite 22008 San Francisca CA 94111 © Telephone 415.905.5300 ® Facsimile 415.905.3350 wiv wimspartners.com


--- page 165 ---
[15] 
 
 
 
Design Guidelines Exceptions 
Requested for Blocks MU 2 and MU 3 
 
 
MU 2 
 
1. Build-To Zone, Building Placement (p. II-48, Table II-7; p. II-47, Figure II-133): The 
building proposed for MU2 is seeking the same Build-To Zone exception that the City 
approved for SPAR #1.  It has been designed to reinforce the block face along 28th 
Avenue and the overall 28th Avenue corridor, as will as for consistency with the 
architecture and structure of the underground parking garage beneath the building. 
For these reasons, it does not curve to follow the 28th Avenue property line and 
therefore does not have the specified minimum 80% of first-floor Build-To within 3’ of 
the Setback Line along 28th Avenue.  
 
Additionally, along 28th Avenue and Derby Avenue, the building achieves the required 
10’ setback at ground level but becomes wider in its upper floors to provide efficient 
floor plan layouts and a clean and strong façade expression, while still preserving the 
pedestrian experience at grade. As a result, the upper floors encroach into the 10’ 
setback zone. 
 
2. Building Massing (p. II-48, Figure 134): The building’s massing along West Kyne Street 
is designed to create a well-proportioned ground-level open space and allow for a 
visual connection through the building lobby, from West Kyne Street to Delaware 
Street. To meet these design objectives and avoid reading as an uninviting, narrow 
slot, this courtyard (which is encouraged but not required) exceeds the 50’-0” 
maximum width.  
 
3. Curb Cuts (p. II-48, Figure II-134): The MU 2 office building is seeking the same kind of 
curb cut exception that office buildings were granted in SPAR #1. It is designed with 
one curb cut for parking access and another curb cut for loading dock access, located 
25’6” apart. The location of these curb cuts meets the criteria for distance from the 
corner at West Kyne Street and pulls the western curb cut as far as possible from 
Delaware Street. It also allows maximum parking garage efficiency in order to meet 
project requirements and community expectations for the number of parking spaces 
provided. The two curb cuts cannot achieve the minimum 50’ separation while also 
addressing these other design and programmatic objectives.

--- page 166 ---
[16] 
 
MU 3 – General 
4. GENERAL CRITERIA (p. II-50, paragraph 1; p. II-51, Figure II-144): The MU 3 block is 
seeking the same kind of mid-block passage height exception that was granted in SPAR 
#1, as well as an exception related to the mid-block passage’s width. The required mid-
block pedestrian passage runs through the ground floors of the MU3 buildings and 
across an open-air mid-block courtyard. The passage is well-proportioned and 
comfortable relative to this width, and the visual connection from Delaware Street to 
Kyne Street is maintained. The portions of the passage that run through the two 
buildings have heights ranging from 11’0” to 13’0”, compared with the required 15’ 
minimum clearance above the sidewalk, in order to facilitate ADA ramping, maximize 
the number of units in the residential building, and achieve coherent building massing. 
The portion of the passage that runs through the office building has a width of 23’8”, 
compared with a maximum of 20’, to facilitate views through the passage.  
 
MU 3 – Office 
 
5. Building Placement (p. II-51, Figure II-144): Along Landing Avenue and Derby Avenue, 
the MU 3 office building achieves the required 10’ setback at ground level but 
becomes wider in its upper floors to provide efficient floor plan layouts and a clean 
and strong façade expression, while still preserving the pedestrian experience at 
grade. As a result, the upper floors encroach into the 10’ setback zone. 
 
 
6. Curb Cuts (p. II-51, Figure II-144): The MU 3 office building is seeking the same kind of 
curb cut exception that office buildings were granted in SPAR #1. It is designed with 
one curb cut for parking access and another curb cut for loading dock access, located 
25’6” apart. The location of these pull the curb cuts as far as possible from Delaware 
Street, while also maximizing parking garage efficiency in order to meet project 
requirements and community expectations for the number of parking spaces provided. 
The two curb cuts cannot achieve the minimum 50’ separation while also addressing 
these other design and programmatic objectives. 
 
MU3 – Residential 
 
7. GENERAL CRITERIA (p. II-17, item (4)): The MU 3 residential building has a decorative 
metal awning that spans across the building lobby’s glazing and the entry to the mid-
block passage, highlighting the location of the mid-block passage and the architectural 
feature above it and reinforcing the visual hierarchy of the street facade. This awning 
projects the depth of the 10’ setback, a depth that is in proportion to its width but 
exceeds the 6’ allowance.

--- page 167 ---
PROJECT: 
 
Bay Meadows Blocks MU 2 & MU 3 - SPAR Modification 
MEETING: 
 
Neighborhood Meeting 
LOCATION: 
 
Zoom Virtual Neighborhood Meeting  
DATE:   
 
Tuesday, June 2, 2020 at 6 pm 
ATTENDING:  
24 people 
 
 
Meeting Attendance 
 
Due to shelter-in-place requirements, the neighborhood meeting for the Bay Meadows MU 2 & 
MU 3 SPAR application was conducted virtually, via Zoom. All attendees were prompted to fill 
in their names and email addresses before entering into the Zoom meeting, and this list was 
downloaded from Zoom after the meeting concluded. 
 
First Name 
Last Name 
Email Address 
Vanessa 
Sewell 
vnsewell@gmail.com 
Kiran 
Ghodgaonkar 
kiranghod@hotmail.com 
Paul 
Ho 
paulho161@gmail.com 
Eric 
Park 
epark-baymeadows@jeztek.com 
Steve 
Chiang 
nevetsrd@att.net 
Mark* 
Santrach 
msantrach@harthowerton.com 
Eran 
Zawadzki 
eranz1000@gmail.com 
Sam 
Pan 
Sampan511@gmail.com 
Lisa 
Miao 
Amiaoco@gmail.com 
Russ 
Jones 
russ.jones@gmail.com 
Stephanie 
Lam 
stephanielamhomes@gmail.com 
Nisha 
Menezes 
Missmenezes@gmail.com 
Jack 
Troedson 
JTroedson@ngkf.com 
Letty 
b 
lettybombach@att.net 
Tim 
Huang 
timothyhuang@live.com 
Jessica 
Yau 
jessykaz@gmail.com 
Jeffrey 
Baginski 
jeffrey.baginski@gmail.com 
Claire 
Lua 
claireluamw@gmail.com 
Mary ann 
Yang 
yang4422@gmail.com 
Karen 
Mann-Anand 
Amanandkaren@gmail.com 
Jason 
Paik 
jpaikman@yahoo.com 
Roy 
Zawadzki 
roy.zawadzki@gmail.com 
Li 
Fan 
lifan@gmail.com 
Catherine 
Huang 
Starbuckssf@hotmail.com 
*Member of project sponsor’s design team

--- page 168 ---
Bay Meadows Blocks MU 2 & MU 3 - SPAR Modification 
Neighborhood Meeting, June 2, 2020 
 
2 
Meeting Notes 
 
Q1: Is any retail space pre-leased for the proposed project? 
A: Leasing will start once the buildings are under construction. 
 
Q2: What are the changes in square footage from the previously-proposed project, broken out 
for office vs. retail? 
A: There is a net decrease of 12,493 s.f. of retail/active-use and a net increase of 274,348 s.f. of 
office. The requirement is to have retail frontage along S. Delaware, which this proposed 
modification does comply with.  
 
Q3.1: Why are these design changes being proposed? Why more office and less residential? 
A: The project is responding to the market.  
• It is also within the framework of transit-oriented development to have a mix of uses.  
• When the entitlements were done, we had a fair amount of flexibility particularly for 
these mixed-use blocks.  
• These changes are within our entitlements under the Development Agreement (DA).  
 
Q3.2 Will the homes be for-sale or rental, and what was originally proposed?  
A: The original plan was for-sale homes. These 57 units will be rental. We believe it’s good for 
the neighborhood to have a mix of product and tenure types.  
 
Q3.3 I expect there will be a formalized traffic analysis?  
A: Yes, we are required to do an updated Traffic Management Plan and Parking Management 
Plan as part of our SPAR submittal. 
 
Q3.4 What about the impact of Mello-Roos taxes and the potential change of MU 2 and 3 
towards the payment back? 
A: The office buildings do pay CFD taxes. This will not increase CFD taxes on any other 
properties in the community. 
 
Q4: There was a request to reduce the amount of retail in favor of office in 2018 and one 
reason offered was because there would be additional retail in MU 2. But this time, the retail is 
being minimized.  
A: Retail is super important part of this community.  
• A daytime population helps retail succeed.  
• We are providing retail along S. Delaware, in the MU 2 and 3 blocks, which does comply 
with our DA. 
• Even in the previously-approved SPAR, the only requirement was that the frontage 
facing S. Delaware be retail; it wasn’t required that the whole groundfloor space be 
retail. 
• We aim to have some great retail and are trying to find the right balance and mix of 
uses.

--- page 169 ---
Bay Meadows Blocks MU 2 & MU 3 - SPAR Modification 
Neighborhood Meeting, June 2, 2020 
 
3 
• It is important to recognize that the traditional retail market is challenging at this time. 
 
Q5: Thank you for the presentation. Everything looks very nicely designed. I am concerned 
about the traffic, and if tenants will use transit; seems like change in use will increase in/out 
number of people during the day? How would it differ if it’s more housing? Office workers don’t 
necessarily live here. Which use better supports transit and community parks? 
A: Our entitlements have trip budgets for Bay Meadows; they sets the number of car trips we 
can have. 
• TMP gets updated with each submission and is vetted by City staff. It must be consistent 
with the requirements of the DA. 
• We have previous surveys of our residents showing that 43% commute via Caltrain. 
• The office garages don’t fill up; our study shows 67-73% utilization. 
• 51% of SurveyMonkey’s employees and subtenants commute by alternative modes. 
 
Q6. What kind of retailers will there be? Will there be a pharmacy? 
A: Wilson Meany does not have a predetermined tenant. 
• We think child care would be a great use and very additive to the community.  
• We want to ensure that this neighborhood-serving retail does not detract from the 
extensive retail at Hillsdale Shopping Center. 
• We welcome resident input on suggestions for retail users. 
 
Q7.1 Will this project impact the Safe Streets program, such as the restriction of through traffic 
at 28th Ave.? 
A. The construction of these buildings will not impact the City’s Safe Streets program, if that is 
something the City decides to continue.   
 
Q7.2 What is the expected impact of pandemic? 
A: We are very sensitive to the pandemic and how that factors into industry trends.  
• Late 2023 is scheduled construction completion; hoping for a vaccine, solutions, and a 
stabilized market by then. 
• Some research we see indicates office users will be seeking more space so their 
employees can be more spread out. 
• We know there continue to be people who need to or prefer to work from the office. 
• We believe Bay Meadows continues to be a higly desirable location. 
 
Q8.1. Any plans for pedestrian bridge/safe way to mall area?  
A: The two new grade-separated crossings will make for a much safer, welcoming passage 
across to Hillsdale. Much easier to walk or bike. 
• No plans by Wilson Meany, City or Caltrans for a bridge.  
 
Q8.2 Does lower square footage decrease the number of retail tenants, especially food, that 
you’re seeking?

--- page 170 ---
Bay Meadows Blocks MU 2 & MU 3 - SPAR Modification 
Neighborhood Meeting, June 2, 2020 
 
4 
A: The square footage does not necessarily decrease the number of retailers.  
 
Q8.3 How successful are the retailers at Bay Meadows? Will you bring more anchor tenants, 
like staple food options? 
A: Tenants are not doing well under Shelter in Place, except Fieldwork.  
• Wilson Meany has been working very closely with the retailers to abate rent and help 
them through this difficult period. We are very committed to their success.  
• Food service and other types of retail will be better supported as the population grows. 
 
Q9. Other new communities can get restaurants, vibrant retail, why can’t we?  
A: The Master plan expected appropriately scaled retail offerings and did not want to be 
competitive with Hillsdale’s retail offerings. The retail offerings were always envisioned to grow 
as the community grows.  
 
Q9.1 Childcare would be really welcome, but the space proposed is rather small. 
A. Our potential childcare space is right-sized relative to the adjacent outdoor space. A 2,000 
square foot space can serve 26-30 children.  
 
Q10. Have you surveyed residents to determine childcare needs/demands? 
A: We agree that childcare would be a great addition. Our current planning comes out of 
discussions we have had with potential child care operators.  
 
Q11.1 Concern about amount of retail; will Delaware be a shopping street? Is retail expected in 
remaining planned buildings? 
A: Station 5 does have groundfloor retail; Station Blocks 2, 3, 4 have plans for future retail; 
retail leasing efforts are ongoing. 
 
Q11.2 Is there a target number of retail tenants? 
A: No, there is not a target number per se.  
• We are having conversations, with 2-3 more retailers signed/expected. 
• We continue to work on leasing. 
 
Q11.3 What percentage of the ultimate retailer count do we have currently, e.g. 50% or 10%? 
A: It’s absolutely more than 10%. We are currently probably closer to 50% leased. 
The retail was always intended to be neighborhood-serving and not a competitor to Hillsdale. 
 
Q12. For retailers, have you considered bookstores, toy stores, hardware stores? 
A: Tenant leasing has been focused on food uses as foundational. We cast a wide net. 
• Hardware/toy stores have not shown interest;  
• That could possibly make business sense in future as population grows. 
 
###

--- page 171 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Lisa Costa Sanders
Sent:
Tuesday, June 16, 2020 10:36 AM
To:
Rendell Bustos
Subject:
Fw: Bay Meadows Planning
Public Comment 
 
From: Paul Ho <
> 
Sent: Tuesday, June 2, 2020 7:32 PM 
To: elesk@wilsonmeany.com <elesk@wilsonmeany.com>; Lisa Costa Sanders <lcostasanders@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Vivienne Ho 
; Julienne F Ho 
 Isabelle Ho 
> 
Subject: Bay Meadows Planning  
  
Hi Emily and Lisa, 
 
Thank you for hosting the informative Bay Meadows MU2 and MU3 planning session tonight.   
 
As I expressed during the Q&A session, as a current owner resident in the neighborhood, I’d like to see us attract a more 
diversified group of retail tenants, in particular a pharmacy (sorely needed; the closest ones are drives away) and more 
staple restaurants (e.g. a pizzeria or a diner; glad to hear you’re negotiating with a potential one in Quimby).  Those will 
definitely enhance the neighborhood feel and therefore the quality of life in Bay Meadows. 
 
 
Thanks, 
Paul Ho

--- page 172 ---
Rendell Bustos

From: Jason Paik

Sent: Monday, June 1, 2020 2:14 PM
To: Lisa Costa Sanders; Rendell Bustos
Subject: Re: Bay Meadows MU2/MU3

Hi Rendell,

Thanks for writing back. | have also recently become aware that the proposed changes may impact
Mello Roos fees in the future - a complete assessment the impacts on Mello Roos fees on current
residents should be integral to the analysis.

Best regards -

Jason Paik

On Monday, June 1, 2020, 01:57:29 PM PDT, Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:

Hello Jason,

Thanks for your comments. We will include the comment in the City’s staff report for the Planning Commission’s
consideration.

Best,

Rendell Bustos

Rendell Bustos
Acting Senior Planner | Community Development Department

330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403

oC xs
‘Lipo

650-522-7211 | rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org

eocHno


--- page 173 ---
From: Jason Paik

Sent: Tuesday, May 26, :

To: Rendell Bustos <rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Costa Sanders <Icostasanders@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Bay Meadows MU2/MU3

Dear Rendell and Lisa,

My wife and | are residents of Bay Meadows. We are writing to you to state our opposition in principle
to the proposed changes to the Bay Meadows SPAR for buildings in MU2 and MU3.

We understand that a long and deliberative process led to the design of Bay Meadows. Both blocks
were originally designed for condominiums and apartments, with the intent in part to create supply for
the ongoing housing crisis. To change the nature of the design substantially to expand office space
when there is such a great need for housing in the city and the entire Peninsula would be a mistake.
We would also ask that careful and complete consideration of all factors, including effects on traffic,
walkability, and neighborhood character be considered.

On the other hand, we understand the developer has had great difficulty regarding retail space
leasing; we would not necessarily be against reducing future retail footprint.

We look forward to hearing the developers presentation - there may be mitigation measures that have
not yet been described; that said, an increase in footprint of offices in Bay Meadows by 30 to 40%
while decreasing housing by a similar value seems like the wrong direction our city should take.

Sincerely,

Jason Paik

* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended only for the
use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from
disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this message
or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the original sender
immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer.
Thank you.


--- page 174 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 20-3165
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Kohar Kojayan
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
June 23, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Election of Officers
RECOMMENDATION:
Nominate and elect the Planning Commission Chair and Vice Chair.
BACKGROUND:
The Planning Commission should nominate and vote to elect a Chair and Vice Chair. These two officers will preside until 
June 2021. Attached are relevant chapters from the City of San Mateo Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures 
(Chapters 3 and 4) which describe the duties of the Chair and Vice Chair, as well as the selection process for these two 
positions.
BUDGET IMPACT:
No budget impact
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - City of San Mateo Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures (Amended by Council Action on May 21, 2018) 
Chapters 3 and 4. 
STAFF CONTACT
Aaron Aknin
Planning Manager
aaknin@cityofsanmateo.org

--- page 175 ---
Att 1 - Boards and Commissions Rules and Procedures, Chapters 3 and 4

--- page 176 ---


--- page 177 ---


--- page 178 ---
