source: packet.pdf
sha256: 82cf1cc09c1f2d2f45dcf18e94190df20add836408f4fa75491f59d866cdafcf
pages: 143
ocr_pages: 12
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission
June 28, 2022
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Margaret Williams, Chair
John Ebneter, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
Martin Wiggins
AGENDA
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO THE GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS
WHICH SUSPEND CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE BROWN ACT.
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: June 28, 2022
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Webinar ID: 884 5680 4962
Passcode: 620038
The Planning Commission meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge Allegiance
Roll Call
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's jurisdiction
that are not on the agenda. Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of 15 minutes
for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's jurisdiction. The
Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the agenda, but shall
refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 of the San Mateo
Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those issues raised at the
public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing. Some public
hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
1.
1701 Leslie Street – Special Use Permit and Parking Variance for a New Commercial Recreation Use (PA-2021-058)
Adopt a Resolution approving a Special Use Permit and Parking Variance to allow a commercial recreation use to
occupy an existing building in the Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) zone and allow shared parking facilities
located at 1701 Leslie Street, and determine the project qualifies for a Categorical Exemption under Class 3,
Section 15303 from further environmental review under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) based
on the Findings for Approval and as conditioned in the Conditions of Approval.

--- page 2 ---
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be
made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.For
transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting
Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Planning Division Office at (650) 522-7212 or planning@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 22-6238
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
June 28, 2022 
SUBJECT:
1701 Leslie Street – Special Use Permit and Parking Variance for a New Commercial Recreation Use (PA-2021-058)
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution approving a Special Use Permit and Parking Variance to allow a commercial recreation use to occupy 
an existing building in the Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) zone and allow shared parking facilities located at 1701 
Leslie Street, and determine the project qualifies for a Categorical Exemption under Class 3, Section 15303 from further 
environmental review under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) based on the Findings for Approval and as 
conditioned in the Conditions of Approval.
BACKGROUND:
The applicant, California Ninja Academy, LLC, submitted a formal Planning Application on September 1, 2021 to convert an 
existing dance studio into a commercial recreation use called “California Ninja Academy” (Ninja Academy) that involves 
physical fitness activities, games, and obstacles on specialized equipment for all age groups. As proposed, the project 
would require a Special Use Permit (SUP) to allow the proposed use in the Transit-Oriented Development zone and a 
Parking Variance to allow the same off-street parking facilities to satisfy required parking for the existing office use and the 
proposed commercial recreation use.
Prior to submission of the formal Planning Application, the applicant held a neighborhood meeting on July 8, 2021, which 
was attended by two members of the public. A Preliminary Application and Planning Commission Study Session were not 
required for this project as the proposed project area is less than 10,000 square feet. 
Site Description
The project site consists of a 1.02-acre (44,363 square feet) parcel at the corner of Leslie St. and 17th Ave. The site’s 
General Plan Land Use Designation is Transit-Oriented Development (TOD), consistent with its zoning designation of TOD. 
The site is also within the Hayward Park Station Overlay Zone of the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented 
Development Plan (Rail Corridor Plan). The project site is adjacent to the Hayward Park Caltrain Station to the east, service 
commercial and wholesale uses to the south and west, and service commercial and office uses to the north across 17th 
Avenue. 
The site is currently developed with one 26,077 square-foot commercial building and a surface parking lot with a total of 
46 off-street parking spaces. The existing architectural style is best characterized as industrial based on the rectangular 
massing of the building, uniform building height, and its composition of concrete blocks along Leslie St. and concrete walls 
along 17th Ave. The building provides two tenant spaces: 1) a 7,570 square-foot space formerly occupied by the 
Kirkpatrick’s School of Dance  and 2) a 18,507 square-foot space currently occupied by the International Brotherhood of 
Electrical Workers (IBEW) Local Union 617 (office use). A location map showing the project site’s vicinity is included in 
Attachment 2.

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Project Description
The applicant proposes to locate a commercial recreation use in the 7,570 square-foot space that was previously occupied 
by the Kirkpatrick’s School of Dance. The proposed business, Ninja Academy, will incorporate physical fitness activities, 
games, and obstacles on specialized equipment and involve a variety of classes and activities to patrons of all age groups 
including:

“Junior Gym” for pre-school children and Home School P.E. for home-schooled students; 

“Ninja Warrior” Classes for youth, adult beginners, and professional competitors;

Discounted Neighborhood Hour for residents within a 10 to 15-minute walking distance; and,

Birthday parties (weekends only)
In addition to the classes and activities above, Ninja Academy will have a daily schedule of classes led by trained instructors 
and open gym periods for unstructured training. The facility will operate from 11:00am to 8:00pm, Monday through 
Friday, and from 10:00am to 8:00pm on Saturday and Sunday. Scheduling information, including staffing and guest 
capacity, can be found on pages 9 through 15 of Ninja Academy’s business plan, included as Attachment 3. The applicant 
does not propose any exterior changes of the existing building and site layout; however, interior modifications include 
removing partitions that separated the space into dance studios and installing two truss systems and specialized 
equipment such as hanging rings, monkey bars, rope swings, and unstable bridges. The interior improvements will also 
include warped walls and floor equipment such as balance beams and angled steps. The project plans showing the 
proposed improvements are included as Attachment 4.
To satisfy the City’s parking requirements, the applicant proposes to enter into a shared parking agreement with IBEW that 
provides Ninja Academy access to 22 of the existing 46 off-street parking spaces at all times. In addition, Ninja Academy 
would have access to an additional 20 spaces (for a total of 42 spaces) on weekdays after 5:00pm, weekends, holidays, and 
any other time the IBEW offices are closed, which allows for larger class sizes during these times. 
Applicable Code and Policy Review
General Plan and Zoning Code
The General Plan Land Use Map designates the site as Transit Oriented Development (TOD). The TOD land use category, as 
defined in Appendix B of the General Plan, allows for transit-supportive, convenience-oriented uses, including specialized 
services. A goal of the General Plan is to promote transit-oriented development in designated areas adjacent to Caltrain 
stations, such as the Hayward Park Station. 
The project site is zoned TOD, consistent with its General Plan Land Use designation. Pursuant to Municipal Code Section 
27.90.010, the purpose of the TOD zoning district is to implement the Rail Corridor Plan. As provided below, the Rail 
Corridor Plan specifies all permitted uses, development standards, and off-street parking and transportation policies for 
the TOD district. The project’s required and proposed development standards are listed in the Factual Data Sheet in 
Attachment 5, many of which remain unchanged because the project does not involve exterior building or site 
improvements. Therefore, the project is consistent with all City policies and remains in conformance with the applicable 
development standards. 
San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan (Rail Corridor Plan)
The San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan (Rail Corridor Plan), adopted in 2005, was developed with 
the intent to encourage and provide guidance for development within a half-mile radius of the Hillsdale and Hayward Park 
Caltrain Station areas. Policies and Objectives of the Rail Corridor Plan include provision of neighborhood and commuter 
serving uses, including specialty services that would enhance neighborhood services, encouragement of shared parking, 
and utilization of horizontal and vertical mixed-use developments. 
The Rail Corridor Plan also provides guidance on permitted or recommended uses; however, unlike other zoning districts, 
it does not provide a specific list of permitted or special uses in the TOD district. Rather, the Rail Corridor Plan provides use 
categories deemed to be transit-supportive, or convenience/commuter-oriented. Examples of transit supportive uses

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
include multi-family housing and major employment centers. Convenience/commuter-oriented uses include retail uses 
which carry smaller goods, cafes, and specialty uses that would enhance neighborhood services such as daycares, art 
stores, and other similar uses.  
Specific to the subject project site, Objective (K) of the plan, “encourages smaller-scale, ground-floor retail within 
designated portions of the Corridor Plan area as an important component of new TOD,” while the Hayward Park Station 
TOD Overlay Zone incorporates Policy 5.12, which provides for “the inclusion of neighborhood and commuter serving retail 
uses and services, including specialty uses that would enhance neighborhood services, within the Hayward Park Station 
TOD zone.” Additionally, the Ground Floor Retail Use section of the Hayward Park Station TOD Overlay Zone states:
“Ground floor retail uses are permitted along… both sides of Leslie Street between 17th Avenue and the SR 92 
over crossing.... These uses should only be neighborhood and commuter serving (such as small grocery stores, 
personal services, shops or restaurants), not those which may function as regional or city-wide consumer 
destinations. These uses should be, for the most part, convenience oriented, providing goods and services within 
easy walking distance for residents and commuters alike.”
At the project site, the Rail Corridor Plan only recommends transit-supportive uses, without providing an explicit list of 
permitted and special uses. As such,  ground floor retail is only a recommendation at the project site and is not a 
requirement, unlike in other areas of the City, such as Downtown, where ground floor retail is required.  
While Ninja Academy is not a retail use and may appear to be a regional destination because of the unique nature of 
activities offered, the applicant proposes incentives for local residents and commuters (that work in the surrounding area) 
so that the use functions like a neighborhood and commuter-serving business as recommended in the Rail Corridor Plan. 
These incentives include a discounted neighborhood hour on weekdays, proactively recruiting staff from the Hayward Park 
neighborhood, and marketing to commuters as a convenient way to integrate exercise before or after commuting. In 
addition, while not formally a part of its business plan, Ninja Academy could attract a variety of visitors that patronize 
nearby existing shops or restaurants before or after classes. 
A list of applicable General Plan policies and Rail Corridor Plan policies is included within the Resolution (Attachment 1). 
Based on Ninja Academy’s business plan (Attachment 3), the project is in conformance with applicable policies of the 
General Plan and the Rail Corridor Plan.
Special Use Permit 
Locating a commercial recreation facility at 1701 Leslie Street requires a Special Use Permit (SUP) given that commercial 
recreation uses are not explicitly designated as recommended land uses in the Rail Corridor Plan. Municipal Code Section 
27.90.040 authorizes the Planning Commission to grant a SUP for non-designated uses in the TOD zone that are “so similar 
to any specifically permitted use so as to be virtually identical thereto in terms of impact and land use requirements”. 
Additionally, Municipal Code Section 27.74.020 authorizes the Planning Commission to grant a SUP if the proposed use will 
not “adversely affect the general health, safety and/or welfare of the community nor will it cause injury or disturbance to 
adjacent property by traffic or by excessive noise, smoke, odor, noxious gas, dust, glare, heat, fumes or industrial waste.”
The use of this site as a commercial recreation facility would be similar in operation and impact to the recommended uses 
of “neighborhood and commuter serving retail uses and services, including specialty uses that enhance neighborhood 
services” given its unique class offerings, the inclusion of benefits specifically meant for neighboring residents, and 
proximity to the Hayward Park Caltrain Station to serve commuters that live/work in the surrounding area. Additionally, 
the use will not adversely affect the general health, safety, and welfare of the community nor will it cause injury or 
disturbance to adjacent property because the use and operations of the site are required to be in compliance with all 
applicable Building Codes, Fire Codes, and the Municipal Code.  Because Ninja Academy is a specialty use that would serve 
both local residents and commuters that live/work in the surrounding area, the SUP findings for approval can be made, 
which are discussed in greater detail within the Resolution (Attachment 1).
Parking Variance and Transportation Analysis

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Pursuant to Municipal Code Section 27.78.040(g), a variance is required to permit the same off-street parking facilities to 
qualify as a required facility for two or more uses, provided the substantial use of such facility by each use does not take 
place at approximately the same hours of the same days of the week. As noted previously, Ninja Academy has access to 22 
off-street parking spaces at all times and would have access to an additional 20 spaces shared with the existing IBEW 
offices. As the project only has access to these shared parking spaces when the IBEW offices are closed (after 5:00pm on 
weekdays, on weekends, and on holidays), the Planning Commission is authorized by Municipal Code Section 27.78.020(a) 
to grant such a variance and determine that there is a hardship if the following conditions pertain:
 
1.
There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions applicable to the property that do not apply 
generally to property in the same zone or neighborhood including buildings of architectural or historical 
significance or of architectural interest as recognized by action of the City Council or another government agency.
2.
A variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a substantial property right of the applicant 
possessed by other property owners in the same zone or neighborhood;
3.
Granting of the variance will not be materially detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare or materially 
injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in which the property is located; and
4.
Granting of the variance will not adversely affect or be inconsistent with the general plan.
To evaluate the requested parking variance, staff conducted a transportation analysis and a parking demand study, which 
is also required in the Rail Corridor Plan area. The City’s transportation consultant, Kittelson & Associates, prepared a 
Traffic and Parking Statement Memo to assess Ninja Academy’s traffic impacts and parking demand (included as 
Attachment 6). The Memo evaluated the project’s shared parking agreement and found that with the utilization of the 22 
dedicated parking spaces, the proposed facility is allotted a maximum capacity of 14 occupants, inclusive of staff and 
patrons, in the facility per session between 11:00am-5:00pm on weekdays. With the  utilization of the additional 20 shared 
parking spaces (42 spaces in total), the proposed facility is allotted a maximum capacity of 27 occupants, inclusive of staff 
and patrons, in the facility per session after 5:00pm on weekdays, weekends, and holidays. The maximum capacity was 
calculated based on class times and sizes as well as  the number of parking spaces available to Ninja Academy. The capacity 
is also dependent on ten minute breaks in between classes to allow parking spaces to become available before new 
patrons arrive. The Memo also found that the project is exempt from Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) and will not have a 
significant impact on traffic operations in the surrounding neighborhood. 
Despite the lack of a VMT or traffic impact, the applicant has proposed several Transportation Demand Management 
(TDM) measures that are altogether estimated to reduce its vehicle trips by at least 25%. Conditions of Approval applicable 
for the life of the project have also been integrated to regulate the shared parking agreement, hours of operation, 
maximum capacity of the facility, and trip-reduction measures. Any proposed modification to the maximum capacity shall 
be based on the equation established in the Traffic and Parking Statement Memo, which is as follows: the maximum 
capacity of the facility shall be equal to the number of available parking spaces, excluding accessible stalls, multiplied by 
0.67.
As proposed and conditioned, the findings to grant the parking variance as outlined above can be made. In addition, it 
should be noted that the Rail Corridor Plan specifically encourages shared parking between uses to reduce the amount of 
land that is dedicated solely to parking. This recommendation of shared parking does not apply to other uses within the 
Hayward Park neighborhood. 
Additionally, the project will not cause public health, safety, or welfare impacts to other property or improvements in the 
neighborhood because it utilizes an existing parking facility, will not cause a substantial increase in traffic, and will not 
result in any exterior changes to the existing building or site layout. Lastly, granting the parking variance will not adversely 
affect or be inconsistent with the General Plan because the project will be in compliance with the Rail Corridor’s policies of 
encouraging shared parking, providing trip-reduction measures, and locating a transit-oriented use adjacent to the 
Hayward Park Station.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
No public comments were submitted to staff during the formal planning application review. Public comments received

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
after publication of this report will be forwarded to the Planning Commission for review and consideration at the public 
hearing and posted to this item on the City’s Agendas & Minutes Public Meeting Portal as “Post Packet Public Comments.”
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
A Categorical Exemption, Class 3, Section 15303 (New Construction and Conversion of Small Structures), is recommended 
for the project pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines. Qualification for the exemption 
requires that the project is located in an urban area and does not exceed 10,000 square feet in floor area on sites zoned 
for such use, is not involving the use of significant amounts of hazardous substances where all necessary public services 
and facilities are available, and the surrounding area is not environmentally sensitive. Since the proposed use will be in an 
urban area where all necessary public services and facilities are available; consists of less than 10,000 square-feet; and 
involves the conversion of an existing building from a dance studio to a commercial recreation use, without including the 
use of significant amounts of hazardous substances, the project meets the qualifications for this categorical exemption. 
NOTICE PROVIDED:
In accordance with Government Code Section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, this public 
hearing was noticed to the following parties more than ten days in advance of this Planning Commission meeting: 
 
•
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 500 feet of the project site; 
•
The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 

utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects;  
•
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and, 
•
The interested parties list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Resolution
Exhibit A – Conditions of Approval 
Att 2 – Location Map
Att 3 – Ninja Academy Business Plan
Att 4 – Project Plans
Att 5 – Factual Data Sheet
Att 6 – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo
STAFF CONTACT
Somer Smith, AICP, Associate Planner
ssmith@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7214

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2022) 
 
RESOLUTION APPROVING A SPECIAL USE PERMIT AND PARKING VARIANCE TO ALLOW A COMMERCIAL 
RECREATION USE IN THE TRANSIT-ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT ZONE AND TO ALLOW SHARED PARKING 
FACILITIES AT 1701 LESLIE STREET AND DETERMINE THE PROJECT QUALIFIES FOR A CATEGORICAL EXEMPTION 
FROM FURTHER ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW UNDER CLASS 3, SECTION 15303 THE CALIFORNIA 
ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT (CEQA) 
 
WHEREAS, Regan Fletcher of California Ninja Academy, LLC. (herein referred to as the “Applicant”) 
submitted a planning application PA-2021-058 with the Planning Division for a Special Use Permit and Parking 
Variance for property located at 1701 Leslie St. to allow a commercial recreation use to locate in the Transit-
Oriented Development zone and to allow the same off-street parking facilities to qualify as a required facility for 
two uses (collectively referred to as “Project”) in the City of San Mateo (“City”); and 
 
WHEREAS, the proposed Project is located within the Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan 
(Rail Corridor Plan) area and requires a Special Use Permit; and  
 
WHEREAS, the San Mateo City Charter and Municipal Code Section 27.90.040 authorizes the Planning 
Commission to take final action on Special Use Permits for “non-designated uses which are so similar to any 
specifically permitted use as designated in the Rail Corridor Plan Land Use Plan so as to be virtually identical 
thereto in terms of impact and land use”; and 
 
WHEREAS, the San Mateo City Charter and Municipal Code Section 27.78.040 authorizes the Planning 
Commission to take final action on variances to permit the same off-street parking facilities to qualify as a required 
facility for two or more uses, provided the substantial use of such facility by each use does not take place at 
approximately the same hours of the same days of the week; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, approval of the applicant’s proposal is considered a “Project” for purposes of the California 
Environmental Quality Act, Pub. Resources Code §21000, et seq. (“CEQA”); and 
 
WHEREAS, the City finds that the Project is categorically exempt from CEQA under Section 15303 New 
Construction and Conversion of Small Structures; and,  
  
 
WHEREAS, the City finds the Project consistent with the applicable policies of the General Plan and other
 applicable policies; and,  
  
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing for the Project on June 28, 2022, duly  
noticed, at which all public comments were considered; and,  
  
WHEREAS, all applicable Conditions of Approval have been attached as Exhibit A.  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY  
FINDS AND RESOLVES that:

--- page 9 ---
1. The Planning Commission finds on the basis of the whole record before it that the Project will not 
have a significant effect on the environment and is therefore categorically exempt from the 
provisions of CEQA under CEQA Class 3, Section 15303 as a “conversion of small structure” 
because it consists of the conversion of an existing building, which was previously used for a dance 
studio, into a gym facility, and involves no expansion of use or any new impacts. 
 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
AS FOLLOWS: 
 
1. The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Land Use Element, Circulation Element, and Urban 
Design Element of the City’s General Plan. 
a. The Project conforms to Land Use Element Policy LU 3.4 and PA 5.2, in that the Project  
implements the Rail Corridor Plan by locating a neighborhood and commuter serving specialty 
use adjacent to the Hayward Park Caltrain Station. 
b. The Project conforms to policies C 2.5 and C 2.11 of the Circulation Element, in that a Traffic 
Impact Analysis (TIA), including a parking demand study, as required by the Rail Corridor Plan, 
has been completed for the Project. The TIA found that the Project is exempt from vehicle 
miles traveled (VMT) and will not have a significant impact on traffic operations in the area. 
The TIA also found that with 22  dedicated spaces, the Project will be able to have a maximum 
capacity, inclusive of patrons and staff, of 14 people in the facility per session between 
11:00am-5:00pm on weekdays. With the  utilization of the additional 20 shared parking 
spaces (42 spaces in total), the Project will be able to have a maximum capacity, inclusive of 
patrons and staff, of 27 people in the facility per session after 5:00pm on weekdays, 
weekends, and holidays. Furthermore, the Applicant has voluntarily committed to the 
implementation of Transportation Demand Management (TDM) measures for the life of the 
Project including subsidizing monthly transit passes for fulltime employees who commute to 
work, providing a discount to Hayward Park residents within a 10-15 minute walking distance, 
and encouraging patrons to use local transit by posting Caltrain and SamTrans schedules 
onsite and on the Project’s website. Lastly, the TIA determined that the Project’s trip-
reduction measures will exceed the Rail Corridor Plan’s goal of 25% reduction in new trips 
generated.  
c. The Project conforms to Policy UD 1.8 of the Urban Design Element in that the Project will 
maximize the Hayward Park Station’s potential as a local transit center. The Project will 
implement TDM measures to encourage the use of the Hayward Park Caltrain Station as the 
main transit option for staff who commute to work and patrons of the facility. 
 
2. The Project conforms to applicable objectives and policies of the City’s Rail Corridor Plan. 
a. The Project conforms to Objective (F) of the Rail Corridor Plan in that the Project is utilizing 
strategies to manage vehicle trips and encourage walking, biking, and transit usage. The 
Project will subsidize monthly transit passes for staff who commute to work, prioritize 
recruitment of staff from the surrounding neighborhood, hold a discounted neighborhood

--- page 10 ---
hour for residents who live within a 10‐15 minute walking distance, and provide bike racks 
and a bike repair station. 
b. The Project conforms to Objectives (J) and (Q) of the Rail Corridor Plan in that the Project’s 
location in a building shared with an office will result in a mixed-use (commercial 
recreation/office) development. As each use has different hours of operation, the Project 
proposes to enter into a shared parking agreement with the office use. This agreement allows 
the two uses to share a parking facility without affecting parking demand or hours of 
operation. The utilization of shared parking will reduce the amount of land and/or buildings 
devoted solely to storage of automobiles. 
c. The Project conforms to Objective (T) of the Rail Corridor Plan in that the Project will not 
significantly increase traffic levels on residential streets in the existing neighborhood. The 
Traffic and Parking Study found that the Project will generate fewer vehicle trips than the 
previous use while also reducing its new vehicle trips by at least 25%. 
d. The Project conforms to Policy 5.12 of the Rail Corridor Plan in that the Project provides a 
neighborhood serving specialty use that would enhance the neighborhood by providing a 
unique recreational facility for adults and children to use. On weekdays the Project will be 
open for younger children and those with flexible work schedules during the day and will 
market itself to commuters who want to stop by the gym before returning home from work. 
Additionally, the Project proposes to dedicate one hour during the work week as “Locals 
Hour”, where a discount is given to neighborhood residents. The Applicant will also prioritize 
recruiting staff from the Hayward Park neighborhood. 
e. The Project conforms to Policy 7.21 in the Rail Corridor Plan in that a Traffic Impact Analysis 
(TIA) and Parking Study has been prepared for the Project, which includes the Applicant’s 
proposed trip-reduction measures and a maximum capacity for patrons and staff of the facility 
based on available parking. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
DOES HEREBY APPROVE THE SPECIAL USE PERMIT AND PARKING VARIANCE (PA-2021-058) AT 1701 LESLIE ST., 
APN 035-215-050 BASED UPON THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL AND THE CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
INCLUDED IN EXHIBIT A TO THIS RESOLUTION: 
 
 
1. The Special Use Permit (Municipal Code Section 27.74.020) application to allow a commercial 
recreation use at 1701 Leslie St. and associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on the 
following findings:  
a. The proposed use is so similar to any specifically permitted use as designated in the Rail Corridor 
Plan Land Use Plan so as to be virtually identical thereto in terms of impact and land use 
requirements. 
i. The proposed Ninja Academy commercial recreation use is similar to the specifically 
allowed use of Transit-Oriented Neighborhood and Commuter Serving Specialty Use in 
the Rail Corridor Plan given its unique class offerings, the inclusion of benefits set aside 
for neighboring residents, and proximity to the Hayward Park Caltrain Station to serve 
commuters. Conditions of approval for the life of the project have been integrated that

--- page 11 ---
regulate the hours of operation, trip-reduction measures, and  maximum capacity of the 
facility based on the executed shared parking agreement and findings of the Traffic and 
Parking Statement Memo. 
b. The proposed use will not adversely affect the general health, safety and/or welfare of the 
community nor will it cause injury or disturbance to adjacent property by traffic or by excessive 
noise, smoke, odor, noxious gas, dust, glare, heat, fumes or industrial waste. 
i. The proposed Ninja Academy commercial recreation use will not adversely affect the 
general health, safety and/or welfare of the community nor will it cause injury or 
disturbance to adjacent property given that the use and operations of the site are 
required to be in compliance with all applicable Building Codes, Fire Codes, and the 
Municipal Code. The Project will also be subject to conditions of approval at all times 
during construction of the project pertaining to construction work hours for all building 
improvements. 
 
2. The Parking Variance (Municipal Code Section 27.78.020) application to allow the same off-street 
parking facilities to qualify as a required facility for two uses, provided the substantial use of such 
facility by each use does not take place at approximately the same hours of the same days of the week 
at 1701 Leslie St. and associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following findings:  
a. There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions applicable to the property 
that do not apply generally to property in the same zone or neighborhood including buildings of 
architectural or historical significance or of architectural interest as recognized by action of the 
City Council or another government agency. 
i. The existing warehouse-style building is located in the Transit-Oriented Development 
(TOD) zone. The purpose of this zone is to implement the Rail Corridor Plan by allowing 
uses that provide goods and services within easy walking distance for both residents and 
commuters. In order to develop uses in proximity to the Hayward Park Station, the Rail 
Corridor Plan encourages shared parking between uses to reduce the amount of land that 
is dedicated solely to parking. Encouragement of shared parking does not apply to other 
uses in the Hayward Park neighborhood. The warehouse-style buildings adjacent to the 
Project on the southwest side of Leslie St. are located in the same neighborhood as the  
project; however, they are not subject to the same recommendations for shared parking 
facilities. Instead, they are required by Municipal Code Chapter 27.64 to provide separate 
parking facilities for individual uses, which is contrary to the objectives and policies of the 
Rail Corridor Plan and the TOD zoning district.  
b. A variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a substantial property right of the 
applicant possessed by other property owners in the same zone or neighborhood. 
i. Under Municipal Code Chapter 27.64, when a change in use occurs, the property receives 
parking credits from the previous use and is only required to provide additional parking if 
the new use’s parking ratio exceeds the former. This chapter does not apply to the TOD 
zone, however. Given the project location within the Rail Corridor Plan, a transportation 
analysis  is required to be completed and parking credits for the previous use are not

--- page 12 ---
permitted to be used. Without the use of parking credits or shared parking, the property 
would be required to provide a substantially higher number of parking stalls than the 
surrounding service commercial and office uses within the same neighborhood, making it 
infeasible to reuse the existing warehouse-style building. 
c. Granting of the variance will not be materially detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare 
or materially injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in which the 
property is located. 
i. The Project will utilize shared parking spaces to meet the parking demand, will not 
increase the amount of traffic by limiting the Project’s capacity based on the number of 
available parking spaces, and will not result in any exterior changes to the existing building 
or site layout. Hence, there would be no public health, safety, or welfare impacts nor will 
the proposal cause any injury to other property or improvements in the neighborhood.  
d. Granting of the variance will not adversely affect or be inconsistent with the general plan. 
i. Granting of the variance will not adversely affect or be inconsistent with the General Plan 
because the project will be in compliance with the Rail Corridor’s policies of encouraging 
shared parking, providing trip-reduction measures, and locating a transit-oriented use 
adjacent to the Hayward Park Station. The project is consistent with the General Plan as 
detailed in prior sections.

--- page 13 ---
EXHIBIT A 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
PA-2021-058, 1701 LESLIE ST., SUP + PARKING VARIANCE 
1701 LESLIE ST 100, SAN MATEO, CA 94402-2409 
 PARCEL # 035215050 
 AS APPROVED BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON 6/28/2022 
 
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of 
approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance. 
Additional language within a condition may further define the timing of required compliance. Types of 
Building permits include Demolition, Shoring/Excavation, Foundation, and Superstructure. 
 
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING 
PERMIT FOR SHORING OR FOUNDATION, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, whichever is issued first, 
or prior to the deadline specified in that condition. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
1 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE – All building permit plans, details, 
and subsequent construction shall substantially conform with the approved planning 
application. This includes but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and 
other items submitted as part of the approved planning application. Any proposed 
modifications to the approved planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the 
proposed modifications. The Community Development Director, or his/her designee, shall 
determine whether the proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved 
planning application, or whether a planning application modification is required to be 
submitted to permit the proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 
27.08.080 Modifications. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – This complete list of Conditions of Approval shall be 
reproduced onto the second sheet of all building permit plan sets. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – The applicant shall pay all 
outstanding planning application fees. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE 
SUPERSTRUCTURE. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
4 LOCATION AND SCREENING OF ABOVE GROUND UTILITIES AND EQUIPMENT – All screening 
for any ground-level utilities, equipment, and other project related operational/utility 
devices shall be shown on the building permit plans in substantial conformance with the 
approved planning application. All above ground utilities and equipment shall be screened

--- page 14 ---
with landscaping, fencing, and/or other solid materials to the satisfaction of the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 PARKING PLAN – The applicant shall include an updated parking plan in the building permit 
plans that clarifies the location, availability, and designation of all off-street parking spaces 
attributed to the project based on the updated Shared Parking Agreement.  (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 SHARED PARKING AGREEMENT – The applicant shall submit an updated Shared Parking 
Agreement with the updated  parking plan, as described in the “PARKING PLAN” condition, 
as an exhibit.  (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
7 CALGREEN – The building permit plans shall incorporate the applicable CALGreen Checklist 
noting the green building measures the project will incorporate in accordance with the 
California Green Building Standards Code and City of San Mateo Reach Codes subject to 
the review and approval by the Building Official, or his/her designee. Current City of San 
Mateo CALGreen checklists are located on Building Division webpage or will be provided 
by Community Development Department staff, if requested. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
8 CODE CONFORMANCE – The applicant shall indicate on all building permit plans that all 
construction shall meet current code standards at the time of building permit submittal. 
The building permit plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee. (FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 FIRE DEPARTMENT SUBMITTALS – The applicant shall submit all plans involving fire 
systems (including but not limited to fire sprinklers, fire hydrants, and fire alarms) in 
conjunction with the superstructure building permit plans to the Fire Department. The 
plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, ISSUANCE 
OF A TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, or ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, 
whichever occurs first. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
10 PLANNING FINAL INSPECTION – Upon completion of all construction and landscaping, the 
applicant shall request the Project Planner conduct a Planning Final inspection for  
verification of compliance with all outstanding conditions of approval. The applicant shall 
contact the Project Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance 
of the requested inspection. (PLANNING)

--- page 15 ---
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION PHASE 
OF THE PROJECT. 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
11 CONSTRUCTION WORK HOURS – Construction shall occur only between the hours of 7:00 
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on 
Saturday, and between 12:00 noon and 4:00 p.m. on Sundays and holidays. These hours do 
not apply to construction that takes place inside a completely enclosed building and does 
not exceed the exterior ambient noise level as measured 10 feet from the exterior 
property lines. The applicant shall conform to the construction work hours to control 
traffic congestion, noise, and dust unless an exemption is granted in accordance with 
Municipal Code Section 23.06.061. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
12 EGRESS – The applicant shall maintain required egress for all adjacent buildings/properties.  
(FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
13 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – The applicant shall perform all construction 
activities in accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control 
Rules and Regulations (SMMC 7.39), and the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution 
Prevention Plan (SMCWPPP) by reference. Detailed information can be located at: 
https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-stormwater-pollution/with-new-
redevelopment/construction-best-practices/  
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the project permitted by this 
planning application occupies the premises. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
14 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE AT ALL TIMES – All physical 
improvements, uses, and operational requirements authorized by the approved planning 
application shall, at all times that the use permitted by this planning application occupies 
the premises, substantially conform with the approved planning application. This includes 
but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and other items submitted as 
part of the approved planning application. Any proposed modifications to the approved 
planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the proposed modifications. The 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee shall determine whether the 
proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved planning application, or 
whether a planning application modification is required to be submitted to permit the 
proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications.  
(PLANNING)

--- page 16 ---
15 BUSINESS PLAN CONFORMANCE – The Business Plan shall substantially conform with the 
approved planning application. This includes but is not limited to hours of operation, class 
schedules with a 10 minute offset between classes, class size, and number of staff onsite 
per class. A copy of the Business Plan shall be kept on site at all times. Any proposed 
modifications to the Business Plan shall be reviewed by the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee, prior to implementation of the proposed modifications. 
Proposed modifications which do not substantially conform with the approved planning 
application shall require a Planning Application Modification in accordance with Municipal 
Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 MAXIMUM CAPACITY OF FACILITY –  The maximum capacity of the facility shall be equal to 
the number of available parking spaces, excluding accessible stalls, multiplied by 0.67, as 
established by the Traffic and Parking Statement Memo by Kittelson & Associates dated 
June of 2022. Based on the approved planning application, the facility shall have a total 
maximum capacity per-session, including staff and patrons, as follows: 
 
(A) Prior to 5 pm on Weekdays: 14 Occupants 
(B) After 5 pm on Weekdays: 27 Occupants 
(C) Weekends and Holidays, and while the adjacent tenant is not in operation: 27 
Occupants 
 
Any proposed modification to the maximum capacity shall be based on the calculation 
specified above. Any proposed modification to the Shared Parking Agreement or the 
Business Plan shall be reviewed, respectively, in accordance with the “SHARED PARKING 
AGREEMENT CONFORMANCE” and “BUSINESS PLAN CONFORMANCE” conditions of 
approval. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17 SHARED PARKING AGREEMENT CONFORMANCE  – The Shared Parking Agreement shall 
substantially conform with the approved planning application. This includes but is not 
limited to  the number and location of all dedicated parking spaces as well as the number 
and location of shared parking spaces and their specific availability. All parking spaces 
addressed in the Shared Parking Agreement shall be identified with the days and times 
they are available for use. A copy of the Shared Parking Agreement shall be kept onsite at 
all time. Any proposed modifications to the Shared Parking Agreement shall be reviewed 
by the Community Development Director, or his/her designee, prior to implementation of 
the proposed modifications. Proposed modifications which do not substantially conform 
with the approved planning application shall require a Planning Application Modification in 
accordance with Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
City Attorney (PA) 
 
 
18 INDEMNIFICATION – The Applicant shall defend (with counsel approved by City), 
indemnify, and hold harmless the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents, from and against any claim, action, or proceeding (including without limitation any 
appeal or petition for review thereof) against the City or its elected and appointed officials,

--- page 17 ---
employees, and agents, related to an approval of the Project, including without limitation 
any related application, permit, certification, condition, environmental determination, 
other approval, compliance or failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, 
and/or processing methods (“Challenge”).  The City may (but is not obligated to) defend 
such Challenge as the City, in its sole discretion, determines appropriate, all at the 
Applicant’s sole cost and expense.  The Applicant shall bear any and all losses, damages, 
injuries, liabilities, costs, and expenses (including, without limitation, staff time and in-
house attorney fees on a fully-loaded basis, attorney fees for outside legal counsel, expert 
witness fees, court costs, and other litigation expenses) arising out of or related to any 
Challenge (“Costs”), whether incurred by the Applicant, City, or awarded to any third party, 
and shall pay to the City upon demand any Costs incurred by the City.  No modification of 
the Project, any application, permit, certification, condition, environmental determination, 
other approval, change in applicable laws and regulations, or change in processing 
methods shall alter the Applicant’s indemnity obligation.  Per Government Code Section 
66474.9, the Applicant’s indemnification obligation with respect to any Challenge 
concerning a subdivision (tentative, parcel, or final map application or approval) shall be 
limited to actions brought within the time period provided for in Government Code Section 
66499.37, unless such time period is extended for any reason.  The City shall promptly 
notify the Applicant of any such claim, action, or proceeding, and shall cooperate fully in 
the defense.  (CITY ATTORNEY) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19 PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.02.210-Violations of 
Planning Application Conditions, any violation of any of the conditions of approval is 
unlawful and will subject the applicant to the penalties set forth in Chapter 1.04-General 
Penalty of the San Mateo Municipal Code as well as any other available legal remedies.  
(CITY ATTORNEY) 
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
20 TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT (TDM) PROGRAM – The project location falls 
within the boundary of the San Mateo Rail Corridor TOD Zoning district and is therefore 
required to prepare and implement a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan. A 
Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Program has been voluntarily provided by the 
applicant and a trip generation analysis has been prepared for this project (refer to Traffic 
and Parking Memo Statement, by Kittelson & Associates, dated June 1, 2022). The 
property owner or designee shall implement the Transportation Demand Management 
Program using programs in compliance with the aforementioned TDM Plan. These 
programs, once implemented, shall be on-going for the occupied life of the development. 
The program shall be recorded in a manner deemed appropriate by the City Attorney.   
The project’s trip generation shall be reduced by 25% through the following TDM Program 
provided by the applicant: 
 
(A) Subsidize monthly transit passes for fulltime employees who commute to work;       
(B) Discount oﬀered to Hayward  Park residents within a 10-15 minute walking 
distance;

--- page 18 ---
(C) Recruit staff from the Hayward Park neighborhood; 
(D) Priority parking for carpools; 
(E) Provide bicycle racks and a bicycle repair station; and,  
(F) Post CalTrain and SamTrans schedules in lobby area and on the California Ninja 
Academy website 
(PUBLIC WORKS/ PLANNING)

--- page 19 ---
LOCATION MAP 
PA 2021-058 
1701 Leslie St., SUP + Parking Variance 
 
Address: 
1701 Leslie St. 
Parcel Number: 
035-215-050 
 
 
  
 
 
Project Site 
Hayward  Park  
Caltrain Station

--- page 20 ---
California Ninja Academy, LLC 
Special Use Permit Applica:on 
- Business Informa:on 
Zoning……………………………………………..….. 2 
Neighborhood-Serving Business………….. 3 
Commuter-Serving Business………………… 6 
Fitness Studio Opera:onal Model …….… 7 
Opera:ng Hours………………………………….. 9 
Capacity……………………………………………… 14 
Staﬃng………………………………………..…..… 16 
Applicant: California Ninja Academy, LLC., Regan Fletcher owner 
Property Owner: Electrical Workers Building Inc. 
Project Address: 1701 Leslie Street, Suite 100 
1

--- page 21 ---
Zoning 
1701 Leslie Street is zoned for C-1 Neighborhood Commercial within the 
Railroad Corridor Transit-Oriented Plan. The proposed business ﬁts within the 
current zoning for a number of reasons: 
 
1.  California Ninja Academy will provide a recrea:onal beneﬁt to the 
 immediate neighborhood in support of the objec:ves laid out in sec:on 
 2-7 of the plan 
2.  Because of this neighborhood recrea:onal oﬀering, California Ninja 
 Academy will draw a large part of its membership from the immediate 
 neighborhood 
3.  California Ninja Academy will be ideally located to market itself to 
 Caltrain commuters as a convenient stop on their way home for a 
 workout 
4.  California Ninja Academy will have an opera:onal model similar to that 
 of a local yoga studio or mar:al arts dojo 
2

--- page 22 ---
RRCT-O Plan: 
Neighborhood Recrea:on Beneﬁt 
2-7 Conserva-on, Open Space, Parks and Recrea-on Element 
 
“Within the element are several policies intended to ensure the protec4on of important natural and 
urban resources, and parks and recrea4onal facili4es.” 
Despite oﬀering three-bedroom units, the 
Sta4on Park Green development, directly 
across the RR tracks from 1701 Leslie, was 
approved despite not oﬀering any play 
structures for kids.  
 
California Ninja Academy will oﬀer residents 
of the immediate neighborhood a locals’ 
discount (see neighborhood map on page 
10) . We will oﬀer a family-focused 
recrea:onal opportunity that will be a short 
walk for neighborhood residents. In addi:on 
to the locals’ discount, there will be a 
dedicated hour each weekday just for 
neighborhood residents to use the facility. 
3

--- page 23 ---
Neighborhood-Serving Recrea:on 
California Ninja Academy will oﬀer a walkable recrea:onal beneﬁt 
to the immediate neighborhood. There are currently no parks, play 
structures or recrea:onal facili:es within a 1000’ radius of 1701 Leslie. 
Hayward 
Trinta 
Concar 
Sunnybrae 
1,000’ 
4

--- page 24 ---
Neighborhood Hour 
5 
Discounted admission from 2pm to 3pm for Hayward Park locals who can walk to the gym. See ‘Opera:ng Hours’.

--- page 25 ---
RRCT-O Plan: Commuter-Serving 
5-12 Ground Floor Retail Uses 
“These uses should only be neighborhood and commuter serving…” 
 
In addi:on to adding a recrea:onal beneﬁt that serves the immediate neighborhood, California Ninja 
Academy will be ideally situated for Caltrain commuters as well: 
•  Targeted social media ads, as well as a sign facing the RR tracks, will promote California Ninja 
Academy to commuters as a place to de-stress on their way home from work 
•  Commu:ng members of California Ninja Academy will ﬁnd a number of convenient retail 
services nearby that will maximize the eﬃciency of their stop at Hayward Park Sta:on 
•  The trickle-down eﬀect of commuters stopping at Hayward Park Sta:on will beneﬁt the 
en:re neighborhood 
•  Star:ng at 5pm every weekday, all sessions will be adult-exclusive or adult-inclusive, making 
California Ninja Academy an ideal stop on a commuter’s ride home 
•  California Ninja Academy will subsidize monthly transit passes for full-:me employees who 
commute to work 
 
Most ninja warrior facili:es in the US are located in car-centric suburbs. California Ninja Academy will 
be similar to NY Ninja Academy in Manhadan on W 55th, whose members access it via the nearby 
M11 bus or the 59th St / Columbus Circle subway sta:on. Or Shins Ninjas on Long Island, which is just 
a couple blocks from the Nassau Blvd sta:on on the Long Island Rail Road. The owners of both 
facili:es have told me they rely heavily on commuter traﬃc for membership. Boston and Chicago are 
also home ninja warrior facili:es strategically located close to sta:ons on the T (Boston) or L (Chicago) 
trains. 
6

--- page 26 ---
Fitness Studio Opera:onal Model 
California Ninja Academy will have a daily schedule of instruc:onal classes led by 
trained instructors. The en:re workout ﬂoor will be dedicated to these classes. 
Think of a mar:al arts dojo or a yoga studio or a dance studio as analogous 
comparisons. 
Ø  By contrast, a tradi:onal gym like 24-Hour Fitness or Crunch Fitness hosts classes in small ancillary 
rooms oﬀ the main ﬂoor. The main ﬂoor of the gym is dedicated to drop-in individual workouts. 
California Ninja Academy’s classes not compete with any “open gym” :mes. All classes, and even 
open gym, will require signups for limited spaces. 
 
Adult Beginner Classes 
Pro Classes 
7

--- page 27 ---
Fitness Studio Opera:onal Model 
Ninja warrior training is centered around community, similar to the communi:es 
you would ﬁnd at a neighborhood yoga studio or a mar:al arts dojo. Ninja athletes 
prefer to train with other ninja athletes in a group environment that lijs up 
everybody, similar to dancers, yogi’s or mar:al ar:sts. 
 
Ø By contrast, members at a tradi:onal gym typically use it for a solo workout without regard to 
when other members of the gym want to work out. One member’s workout :me is not dependent 
on that of any other member. 
 
There will indeed be :mes when the gym is “open” for unstructured training. But 
even those will be similar to a dance workshop sekng where athletes connect and 
share techniques and :ps with other athletes there at the :me. 
 
8

--- page 28 ---
Opera:ng Hours 
9 
Sun 
Mon 
Tues 
Wed 
Thur 
Fri 
Sat 
10a 
B’day Party 
B’day Party 
10a 
11a 
Junior Gym 
Junior Gym 
Junior Gym 
Junior Gym 
Junior Gym 
11a 
Noon 
B’day Party 
B’day Party 
Noon 
1p 
Home  
School PE 
Home  
School PE 
Home  
School PE 
Home  
School PE 
Home  
School PE 
1p 
2p 
B’day Party 
Neighborhood 
Hour 
Neighborhood 
Hour 
Neighborhood 
Hour 
Neighborhood 
Hour 
Neighborhood 
Hour 
B’day Party 
2p 
3p 
Open Gym 
Open Gym 
Open Gym 
Open Gym 
Open Gym 
3p 
4p 
Adult Open 
Youth Classes 
Youth Classes 
Youth Classes 
Youth Classes 
Youth Classes 
Adult Open 
4p 
5p 
Open Gym 
Open Gym 
Open Gym 
Open Gym 
Open Gym 
5p 
6p 
Adult Open 
Pro Classes 
Compe::on 
Pro Classes 
Adult 
Compe::on 
6p 
7p 
Teams 
Beginners 
Teams 
7p 
8p 
8p 
Birthday Par:es  – two hour :me slots allow one party to clear out before next party starts, minimizing traﬃc 
Junior Gym
 – pre-school age only; limited to 10 signup slots (+ guardians)  
Home School PE  – PhysEd classes for home school students; limited to 10 signup slots; 50-minute class 
Open Gym
 – gym open to anyone but limited to 10 signup slots for 3pm slot; limited to 20 for 5pm slot; 50-minute sessions 
Adult Open Gym  – gym open to adults only and limited to 20 signup slots; 50-minute sessions 
Adult Beginners  – instructor-based for adults who want to try ninja warrior without being overwhelmed by kids or pros; 50-minute sessions 
Pro Classes 
 – instructor-based and open to compe::on-level only; limited to 20 signup slots;  
Compe::on Teams – no min. age but limited to athletes training at compe::on level; focused on racing vs. instruc:on 
Neighborhood
 – discounted and reserved :me slots for neighborhood residents; 50-minute sessions; see map on page 5 
Youth Classes 
 – instructor led classes and limited to 14 years old and under; 50-minute classes

--- page 29 ---
Weekday Mornings 
Junior Gym:
 
 Facility reserved for kids 6 and under, along with their care giver. 
 
 
 Access limited to easiest obstacles but no danger of being run over by an older kid or adult. 
 
 
 Care givers have access to party area tables and chairs. 
 
 
 Staﬀ (not necessarily ninja warrior instructors) will give basic guidance to using apparatus but focus 
 
 
 primarily on safety (eg. making sure only one person on an obstacle at a :me). 
 
Home School PE:
 Structured PhysEd classes for home schooled kids of elementary and middle school age. 
 
 
 Access to obstacles will be based on ability so younger kids won’t be using the same obstacles as 
 
 
 older kids. 
 
Neighborhood Hour:  Discount oﬀered to Hayward Park residents within a 10-15 minute walking distance. 
 
 
 “Locals” area more or less deﬁned by ECR to the west, 21st Ave / Saratoga Drive to the south, South 
 
 
 Amphled to the east and 10th Ave to the north. 
 
 
 Financial incen:ve for locals who work from home or the evening shij to walk to California Ninja 
 
 
 Academy when it’s less crowded. 
 
 
10

--- page 30 ---
Weekday Ajernoons 
Open Gym:
 
 Transi:onal hours from Neighborhood Hour to Youth Classes and from Youth Classes to Adult Open. 
 
 
 Open to all ages but access to obstacles based on ability and tes:ng into most diﬃcult obstacles. 
 
 
 Qualiﬁed instructors available to provide instruc:on but will be “bouncing” from one athlete to  
 
 
 another and one obstacle to another, not dedicated to a speciﬁc group of athletes. 
 
 
 Limited to 10 athletes; signups required ahead of :me. 
 
 
 50-minute sessions 
 
 
  
Youth Classes: 
 Structured 50-minute classes led by qualiﬁed instructors for athletes 14 years old and younger. 
 
 
 Access to obstacles based on selec:ons by instructors. 
 
 
 Limited to 10 athletes; signups required ahead of :me. 
 
 
  
Adult Open:
 
 Limited to adults; no kids gekng in their way. 
 
 
 Qualiﬁed instructors available to provide instruc:on but will be “bouncing” from one athlete to  
 
 
 another and one obstacle to another, not dedicated to a speciﬁc group of athletes. 
 
 
 Limited to 10 athletes; signups required ahead of :me. 
 
 
 50-minute sessions 
 
 
11

--- page 31 ---
Weekday Evenings 
Pro Classes:
 
 No minimum age but limited to high level athletes who are training for compe::on. 
 
 
 Led by instructors and limited to 10 qualiﬁed athletes who signup ahead of :me. 
 
Compe::on Teams:  Athletes who have been training for compe::on have access to compe::on-level courses that 
 
 
 will change from week to week. 
 
 
 A “course” is simply a speciﬁc path through designated obstacles with a clock running and penal:es 
 
 
 assessed. Courses change from week to week. 
  
Adult Beginners:
 Instructor-led classes for any adults who would like to try ninja warrior in an environment where 
 
 
 more experienced athletes won’t be judging them or “hogging” the obstacles. 
 
 
 Limited to 10 athletes who signup ahead of :me. 
 
 
 50-minute classes 
 
12

--- page 32 ---
Weekends 
Birthday Par:es:
 Facility reserved for one birthday party at a :me. 
 
 
 Birthday par:es limited to 20 guests. 
 
 
 Two “hosts” (not necessarily ninja warrior instructors) will give basic guidance to using apparatus 
 
 
 but focus primarily on safety (eg. making sure only one person on an obstacle at a :me). 
 
 
 One qualiﬁed instructor will be available and providing instruc:on similar to that of Open Gym, i.e. 
 
 
 going from guest to guest and obstacle to obstacle. 
 
 
 Party slots are oﬃcially two hours but that includes clean up and departure. Hosts will start moving 
 
 
 guests oﬀ the obstacles at the 1:45 mark as guests for the following party begin to arrive. 
 
 
 Arriving guests will gather in lobby area, ensuring waivers are signed and wai:ng for their party to 
 
 
 begin. 
 
Adult Open and  
Compe::on Teams: Ajer birthday par:es are completed for the day, adults athletes will have an opportunity to 
 
 
 use the ninja gym without kids running around. Compe::on Teams will include non-adults 
 
 
 but they will all be high-level ninja athletes and considered peers by adult athletes. 
 
 
  
 
 
13

--- page 33 ---
Guest Capacity 
Sun 
Mon 
Tues 
Wed 
Thur 
Fri 
Sat 
10a 
20 kids + 
parents 
20 kids + 
parents 
10a 
11a 
10 kids + 
guardians 
10 kids + 
guardians 
10 kids + 
guardians 
10 kids + 
guardians 
 
10 kids + 
guardians 
11a 
Noon 
20 kids + 
parents 
20 kids + 
parents 
Noon 
1p 
10 students + 
guardian 
10 students + 
guardian 
10 students + 
guardian 
10 students + 
guardian 
10 students + 
guardian 
1p 
2p 
20 kids + 
parents 
10 locals of all 
ages 
10 locals of all 
ages 
10 locals of all 
ages 
10 locals of all 
ages 
10 locals of all 
ages 
20 kids + 
parents 
2p 
3p 
10 athletes 
10 athletes 
10 athletes 
10 athletes 
10 athletes 
3p 
4p 
20 athletes 
10 athletes 
10 athletes 
10 athletes 
10 athletes 
10 athletes 
20 athletes 
4p 
5p 
20 athletes 
20 athletes 
20 athletes 
20 athletes 
20 athletes 
5p 
6p 
20 athletes 
20 athletes 
20 athletes 
20 athletes 
20 athletes 
20 athletes 
6p 
7p 
7p 
8p 
8p 
14 
*Weekday sessions will end at the :50 minute mark of the hour so one class can clear out before the other begins

--- page 34 ---
Staﬃng 
Sun 
Mon 
Tues 
Wed 
Thur 
Fri 
Sat 
10a 
3 hosts +  
1 instructor 
3 hosts +  
1 instructor 
10a 
11a 
1 host 
1 host 
1 host 
1 host 
1 host 
11a 
Noon 
Noon 
1p 
1 instructor 
1 instructor 
1 instructor 
1 instructor 
1 instructor 
1p 
2p 
1 instructor 
1 instructor 
1 instructor 
1 instructor 
1 instructor 
2p 
3p 
1 instructor 
1 instructor 
1 instructor 
1 instructor 
1 instructor 
3p 
4p 
2 
instructors 
1 host + 3 
instructors 
1 host + 3 
instructors 
1 host + 3 
instructors 
1 host + 3 
instructors 
1 host + 3 
instructors 
2 instructors 
4p 
5p 
2 instructors 
2 instructors 
2 instructors 
2 instructors 
2 instructors 
5p 
6p 
2 instructors 
3 instructors 
3 instructors 
3 instructors 
2 instructors 
3 instructors 
6p 
7p 
7p 
8p 
8p 
Host = Part-:me; checks in guests, conveys rules of the gym, etc. Many would be local high school students who can walk/ride to work. 
Instructor = Part-:me; trained as a ninja warrior instructor to provide instruc:on on technique and strategy.  
15

--- page 35 ---
Applicant Informa/on: 
 
Name:  
 
 California Ninja Academy, LLC., Regan Fletcher owner 
Mailing Address:  
 735 Winchester Drive 
City, State, Zip:
 
 Burlingame CA 94010 
Day:me Phone:  
 415-608-3293 
Email:
 
 
 Regan.Fletcher@yahoo,com 
 
Property Owner Informa/on: 
 
Name:  
 
 Electrical Workers Building Inc. 
Mailing Address:  
 1701 Leslie Street 
City, State, Zip:
 
 San Mateo CA 94402 
Day:me Phone:  
 650-574-4239 
Email:
 
 
 dmauro@ibew617.com 
 
Project and Property Informa/on: 
 
Project Address:  
 1701 Leslie Street, Suite 100, San Mateo CA 94402 
Assessor Parcel Number:  035-215-050 
Lot Size: 
 
 44,364sf 
Floor Area Ra:o: 
 0.62 
Max. Permi>ed FAR:
 3.0 
Zoning:  
 
 Transit Oriented Development 
Total Building Floor Area:  26,077sf (no change) 
Area to be Remodeled:
 6,000 square feet 
Total Parking Spaces:
 44 
Total Soil Disturbance:
 0 cubic yards 
Hazardous Materials:
 None 
 
Brief Project Descrip:on:  California Ninja Academy, LLC. proposes to operate a ninja warrior training studio in the loca:on previously occupied by 
 
 
 Kirkpatrick School of Dance. The proposed business would be similar to Kirkpatrick in that it would oﬀer scheduled classes 
 
 
 with qualiﬁed instructors. The interior non-loadbearing walls that currently divide the facility into four dance studios 
 
 
 would be demolished, crea:ng a large open training facility. There would be no changes to exterior walls, windows, 
 
 
 entry/exit doors, bathrooms or staﬀ break room. The business would operate a daily schedule of instruc:onal classes led 
 
 
 by trained instructors, similar to the opera:ons you would see at a neighborhood yoga studio. California Ninja Academy, 
 
 
 LLC would share a parking lot with IBEW, but would have full-:me access to 12 marked parking spaces as well as access to 
 
 
 40 parking spaces for all events, including birthday par:es and compe::ons on weekends and aher 5pm on weekdays. 
 
Project Descrip:on – Cover Sheet 
2

--- page 36 ---
Loca:on 
1701 Leslie Street Suite 100 
1701 Leslie Street 
American  
Legion 
Kano 
Auto 
Pro Audio 
Stereo 
Peninsula 
Gymnas:cs 
Big Oak 
Hardwood 
Floors 
Atlas 
Pavers 
JunYue 
Bistro 
John’s 
Mobile 
Engine 
Hayward Park  
Caltrain Sta:on 
Suite 100 
12

--- page 37 ---
Project Plans: Site, Eleva:on, Parking 
Given that there is no construc:on proposed for this project, only demoli:on of interior non-loadbearing walls, I have u:lized the 
architect drawings submi>ed to the city in 2003 by CAS Architects, Inc. on behalf of Kirkpatrick Studio of Dance, for reference 
only. Included below is a le>er from José Co>o of CAS gran:ng permission to do so as well as the Title Sheet from Kirkpatrick’s 
submission. These documents are also included, in full, in Suppor:ng Documenta:on ﬁle submi>ed with this applica:on. 
13

--- page 38 ---
Site Plan 
(No Changes to Exterior) 
*For Reference Only* 
14 
NO CHANGES TO EXTERIOR

--- page 39 ---
Site Plan 
MAIN TRUSS 
LOBBY 
PARTY  AREA 
From A0.1 of submi>ed  
architect drawings 
17th Street 
Leslie Street 
15 
NO CHANGES TO EXTERIOR

--- page 40 ---
Elevation

WALL SECTION 4

(1) (10) 9) (8) @) (6 (5) 4) (3) (2) Qa)

— } — KIRKPATRICK’S
SCHOOL OF DANCE

WO} LESLIE STREET, SURTE_ 100
SAM MATEO, CALIFORNIA $4402

NORTH ELEVATION . ~

<> moO OREN, TY MeCHAMCAL UN MeDwecaL UNIT

IBEW
oo

? EXTERIOR
. ELEVATIONS &

SECTIONS

= mart

WEST ELEVATION _ .

EAST ELEVATION

*For Reference Only*



--- page 41 ---
Eleva:on 
WEST ELEVATION (NO CHANGE) 
EAST ELEVATION (NO CHANGE) 
NORTH ELEVATION (NO CHANGE) 
MECHANICAL UNIT 
ROOF DRAIN, TYP 
MECHANICAL UNIT 
From A3.1 of submi>ed architect drawings. 
No changes to any building eleva:ons. 
No exterior work is being done to building. 
*For Reference Only* 
17 
4’ – 6” 
2’ – 9”

--- page 42 ---
North Eleva:on 
*For Reference Only* 
18 
4’ – 6” 
2’ – 9” 
No change to eleva:on or exterior of building; 
no change of color of pain:ng.

--- page 43 ---
Existing Floor Plan

eating CIE ED

cas

FLOOR PLAN NOTES

~ + . sons:

4

AUN FACE OF WAL

wre COLUMN Une er CescRE TON

pee

212
sTuDIO

FLOOR PLAN REMARKS

PATO CONCRETE FLOOR AT NEW PUM Ln:

@ owen surruen sewn, nic

@) PRowor 5 Pr, vowry sae w/ ec. SE STeUCTURAL

@ wastnc meres ass coon, UE AS ot
@ voex <> Praeess 000% we ace
© rrowe war O77 AFF. @CLORT. PANT WHT

TmgWDe res SUDED W
2 2. REFER TO NOTES OW DOOR SOEDULE
© mmoene rt we we ner we—D-vARH co 3 Gee ne heen Fe Rat OSCR
Tine be anc wawt ee EE
101 macy wate

gk enon ne
hy g-—— GADD COLOR

SHEET WHERE OCCURS

REFER TO STRLCRMAL FoR ofa.

~ REXCATES ACTIVE LEAF

— PMACATES CHANGE IN FLOOR
ree

— nuressen re OrmennoeE®
Sane
ey
Lice vow ae

SrINGeER Mic
RN Renee or omen

LNT ACE MOUNTED BLECTINCAL|
Panel BOARD

memes mecca,
Pas, BOARD
—— vew onECTON

— SECTION MNS
SHEET WERE CORRS,

FLOOR PLAN

reo we
BEvOND, SEE WALL TE

INTERIOR ELEVA ION (SATIN
WNOCATES DRECION OF WEN)
FUTURE TL.

EET MERE CORRS,

TS erat woe
Gaal — seer mene coos

DL meat race oF rain race
oF MED

coNe, SLA 11/2" ob.

Pore wun —

*
3| aw Amu WE. Sr SHEET 422
1 fon lithe Soemae
2 noon oa
i © cremucnn 10 noua!
sas commutes
et
SECTION @ STAIR O KIRKPATRICK'S
ees SCHOOL OF DANCE
"To! LEM STREET, OUTE 300
(R) San MATEO, CALFORMIA 84802

FUTURE Ti.

FLOOR PLAN

AND INTERIOR
WAR LASI AN ELEVATIONS
(COUNTERTOPS, UP,

— S083, DOORS AND ORAWERS.
rom

EAST

SECTION @ STAIR ENLARGED PLAN @ STAIR

RM. 218: BREAK ROOM “

*For Reference Only*



--- page 44 ---
Exis:ng Floor Plan 
From A2.1 of submi>ed architect drawings 
*For Reference Only* 
20

--- page 45 ---
Proposed Demoli:on 
Interior non-loadbearing walls to be demolished 
No changes to exterior or loadbearing walls 
21

--- page 46 ---
Open Space Aher Demoli:on 
No changes to exterior walls. 
No changes to entry / exit. 
No changes to windows. 
No changes to bathrooms. 
No changes to break room. 
Expected permits required:   
Demoli:on 
Electrical to “safe oﬀ” the interior walls during demoli:on 
22

--- page 47 ---
Open Space Aher Demoli:on 
121’ 
8’ 
49’ 
40’ 
25’ 
36’ 
11’ 
OFFICE 
(no change) 
STORAGE 
(no change) 
BREAK 
ROOM 
(no change) 
MEN 
(no change) 
WOMEN 
(no change) 
No changes to exterior of building. No structural changes to interior. 
23 
ENTRANCE 
EXIT

--- page 48 ---
Proposed Floor Plan 
Typical Dimensions 
MAIN TRUSS 
JUNIOR    TRUSS 
STORAGE 
(no change) 
BREAK 
ROOM 
(no change) 
MEN 
WOMEN 
PARTY   AREA  
WARPED WALLS 
ENTRANCE 
LOBBY 
OFFICE 
(no change) 
 
MAIN TRUSS and JUNIOR TRUSS:  Aluminum truss structure secured to the ﬂoor with concrete anchor bolts. Truss structures are not permanent construc:on nor  
 
 
         a permanent ﬁxture. Interchangeable obstacles mounted on truss. Junior elements will be easier and shorter fall to padded  
 
 
         ﬂoor. All ﬂooring beneath ac:vi:es covered in foam padding. 
FLOOR ELEMENTS:  
         Moveable obstacles that sit on padded ﬂooring. 
WARPED WALLS:   
         Curved walls of varying heights (6’ and 8’ for junior warped wall; 10’ to 14’ for main warped walls) 
29’ 
60’ 
25’ 
25’ 
(Open   Area.  
No front wall.     No doors.  
Divided by removable par::on) 
EXIT 
24 
8’ 
27’ 
20’

--- page 49 ---
Proposed Floor Plan 
MEN 
WOMEN 
BREAK 
ROOM 
STORAGE 
OFFICE 
Color ﬂoor plan by Dreamland Playground 
Based on dimensions in architect drawings submi>ed with applica:on. 
www.dreamlandplayground.com 
LOBBY 
FLOOR ELEMENTS 
MAIN TRUSS 
JUNIOR TRUSS 
WARPED  
WALLS 
25 
PARTY AREA 
JUNIOR TRUSS

--- page 50 ---
3-D Floor Plan 
3-D ﬂoor plan by Dreamland Playground 
Based on dimensions in architect drawings submi>ed with applica:on. 
www.dreamlandplayground.com 
26 
Vinyl Divider 
Not a permanent wall 
No door to party area

--- page 51 ---
Junior Truss - Restricted to kids 8 & under 
-  Rope swings 
-  Cargo net (climbing) 
-  Unstable Bridges (hanging balance boards) 
-  Cheese Boards (climbing) 
Floor Obstacles - Open to anyone 
-  Balance beams 
-  Angled Steps (balance & agility) 
Lane One – Beginners / Easy 
-  Hanging Discs (balance) 
-  Hanging Rings (like 
monkey bars) 
-  Cargo Net (unstable 
climbing ropes) 
Lane Two – Intermediate / Moderate 
-  Unstable Bridges (more diﬃcult than Jr.) 
-  Hanging Rings (like unstable monkey bars) 
-  Wingnuts (hanging strength/balance obstacle) 
Lane Four – Advanced / Diﬃcult 
-  Salmon Ladder (overall body strength) 
-  Uneven Rings (arm strength) 
-  Tumbling Dice (arm strength) 
Lane Three – Intermediate / Moderate 
-  CliQangers (arm strength) 
-  Flying Squirrels (body strength) 
-  Waverunner (overall body strength) 
Junior Warped Walls 
-  8’ and 10’ heights 
Advanced Warped Walls 
-  12’ and 14’ heights 
Junior Truss – Kids 8U only 
Main Truss – Any age but set 
up by level of diﬃculty 
Warped Walls – Arranged by 
diﬃculty

--- page 52 ---
Point of View 
Point-of-View ﬂoor view by Dreamland Playground 
Based on dimensions in architect drawings submi>ed with applica:on. 
www.dreamlandplayground.com 
Warped Walls 
Padded Floors 
Aluminum Truss 
Truss-Mounted 
Elements / Obstacles 
*For Reference Only* 
27

--- page 53 ---
Parking

ee

PARKING ANALYSIS TOILET FIXTURE ANALYSIS
ramen va Fiona wen staLL may SF _aRD PARC comeincr A-3 WO
ae 1a rc suas mone AA
penn, cence ass BS a3 8 ake
Burgess HANA Be Bs an Sromace
‘coer a Be as as She AFEAS /ORELATON
faowr Et xs oss
Secon 23 Ss nae
bon eer Be Sis an OPAL ver ana: 1am sr.
Daparae ans Ms as —_
a \BEALINOT COMED FR sect 27-04.2m9 aM wATED CTY cone) (DOOUPANT L080 (PRR CRO TALE 41)
own noose 30
| t terrors ra B COMEWEY 4820 SF. /200 SF. foocumaNT = 33 cee,
| ream aMEA & Oren nocus Za Ee
| itor Moon Lea TOTAL OCCUPANT LOND FOR FLERE WUNLYR 23 exe,
Stonwce are 4
aroen eecUPAMT LOHo = Nene 1 60
(cnr

(OCCUPANT LOAD — WOUEH: 12 occ.

/ /
yf
J f 8 OCOPANCY
} ance stax mz vr
suoo 4 ms 20 23 ‘woh ese ,
Py 3 iz ex ciosers
oa 0 oe = 38 nas ,
guns :
i » aS an Ure
+8 wun
hj ‘RAMEE STUGID (MOT COUNTED PSR SECTION 27.08.2000 sane warED CITY oooe) WATER CLOSETR '
HH) Los ano warn ‘aa wares '
(LOOKER 00M 198 TOTAL FLUMERSG FxTURES PmoAcED
wee
scout vate oy comes
eT Lon (oT ART OR SE 2.24.20. a oes
cos ae reves zo
ae LaeaTORES aot (0) HOUR @AED ExT
oenoen
e tune (ree SPA an women:
Bi) FUTIRE OFRCE gt 1200 Pd ase WATER CLOSETS: 44 roert oF accesses
FINE Ones fe BJ 3 Fr) cures ae cour
Tora. pam ercvoen _ “ secu van san
5 oa rn Seton OF Ne
Base 3
car 01a
(ASAI OP ATOM? 5) 70 B30) AND UNION MEE RNG (7.C0h 99 ID COPY CRS A nN)
(0) erm at, ve * a
NOK: ASSDELY PAnNCNG NOT COUNTED D1 REDUARED GAY TOE PAINE AER CY ACMEEMENE
y EXIT WIDTH ANALYSIS (PER CBC SECTION 1003.2) | EXITING PLAN NOTES
i
mer 8 (DIT DOORS S41 GE GPENABLE FROW THE SIE STOUT THE
Bae GF way om JON DNL MEDS Oo OPO
ene Ban oes eae an Bee ws
rpnrctgeey A Bam
er ra 74M 8h (8 OCOUPANT LOAD OF SO Om WORE.
ADEDUPANT LOAD OME TaaLE oa) SEPA OR REPLACE ANY oo cw
— -—-—-Hi®) 8 cecuPaeecy: oH DasTnG SELL BAT DOORS. a ne
(ERA, OFFICE © 100 SF ADCOUPANT = a8t SF /t00 = son MEPAR OR REPLACE ANY UEONG DOTNS SeNEE
Stuoos @ 20 37-/COaPIaT = 400 AF /20 = wn oe
tinon acess GPEaK Re, @ 154 7. focrupueT =
as woe
Som AMES 0 SF /OCRAPANT = 2085 8.0 = ce
Stoeace @'300's7 osuunt =” Sar 3000 = 1 oe
aL 6 CORP Toa rs
vor cocina 6 coe
EXITING PLAN REMARKS
DW k> NAWORNL. PATCH AND REPAR STAR TO MATON DaSTHO
cer 833) © rrcwce Mew Wc COMPUT YL MOUNTED HAD ALTO MATON
FRRST FL i OCCUPANTS X 02 = v9"/2 ETS wo
@ Powe no panos urom
waaay oooe wos acasReD. os:
Saad Side Tose oor owen, S @ scans Pa oF rave.

© 1964 cocsreD Br aNOIMEN Tenant

EXITING AND SITE PLAN

1 —__#—
i BERNE Se wen soe
3 ‘57D, Sq, RODE MACTE STALL
4 TF
i ae neo este
é aes as
5 BPs hearts
§ cow
= ‘ome nee SATA SITE/EXITING
: PLAN & DETAILS
2 enor
Sere w wee
eFissez
a
een
ACD _j
~ +
H.C. SYMBOL HANDICAPPED PARKING SIGN: {3 HANDICAPPED PARKING SIGN PAVING DETAIL
(FOR REFERENCE ONLY) vere STALLS (FOR REF. ONLY) wero \9/ (FOR REF. ONLY) Laaiaial (FOR REFERENCE ONLY)

*For Reference Only*



--- page 54 ---
Parking 
From A0.1 of submi>ed architect drawings 
17th Street 
Leslie Street 
Suite 100 
29 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
32 31 
30 
29 28 
27 26 
25 
24 23 
22 21 
20 
19 
33 34 35 
38 
36 37 
39 
40 
41 
42 
43 
44 
1A 
2A 
Total Spaces on Site: 
44 regular parking spaces  
2 shared ADA parking spaces  
46 total spaces 
 
California Ninja Academy: 
12 parking spaces assigned 24/7 
 
40 parking spaces on weekends,  
holidays and aher 5pm on  
weekdays

--- page 55 ---
Opera:ng Hours 
30 
Sun 
Mon 
Tues 
Wed 
Thur 
Fri 
Sat 
10a 
B’day Party 
B’day Party 
10a 
11a 
Junior Gym 
Junior Gym 
Junior Gym 
Junior Gym 
Junior Gym 
11a 
Noon 
B’day Party 
B’day Party 
Noon 
1p 
Home  
School PE 
Home  
School PE 
Home  
School PE 
Home  
School PE 
Home  
School PE 
1p 
2p 
B’day Party 
Neighborhood 
Hour 
Neighborhood 
Hour 
Neighborhood 
Hour 
Neighborhood 
Hour 
Neighborhood 
Hour 
B’day Party 
2p 
3p 
Open Gym 
Open Gym 
Open Gym 
Open Gym 
Open Gym 
3p 
4p 
Adult Open 
Youth Classes 
Youth Classes 
Youth Classes 
Youth Classes 
Youth Classes 
Adult Open 
4p 
5p 
Open Gym 
Open Gym 
Open Gym 
Open Gym 
Open Gym 
5p 
6p 
Adult Open 
Pro Classes 
Compe::on 
Pro Classes 
Adult 
Compe::on 
6p 
7p 
Teams 
Beginners 
Teams 
7p 
8p 
8p 
Birthday Par:es  – two hour :me slots allow one party to clear out before next party starts, minimizing traﬃc 
Junior Gym
 – pre-school age (+ guardian) only; limited to 10 signup slots 
Home School PE  – PhysEd classes for home school students 
Open Gym
 – gym open to anyone but limited to 20 signup slots; obstacles accessible based on ability & “tes:ng in” 
Adult Open Gym  – gym open to adults only and limited to 20 signup slots 
Adult Beginners  – instructor based for adults who want to try ninja warrior without being overwhelmed by kids or pros 
Pro Classes 
 – instructor based and open to all ages but must test in; limited to 20 signup slots 
Compe::on Teams – all ages and led by coaches; segmented by age and ability 
Neighborhood
 – discount and reserved :me slots for neighborhood residents; see map on following page 
Youth Classes 
 – instructor led classes and limited to 14 years old and under

--- page 56 ---
Fire Department 
31 
Fire alarm system on ﬁle with city 
Exterior and interior sprinkler controls

--- page 57 ---
Building Department 
Building permit applica:on(s) will be submi>ed to cover following work: 
• 
Securing truss to ﬂoor with concrete anchors 
• 
Demolishing exis:ng interior non-loadbearing walls 
• 
Change of use 
• 
Accessible path of travel 
32

--- page 58 ---
Materials Board 
33 
No change to exterior paint colors or rooﬁng materials.

--- page 59 ---
ATT  - FACTUAL  DATA SHEET
NAME:
1701 Leslie St., SUP + Parking 
Variance
PA :
PA-2021-058
ADDRESS:
1701 Leslie St.
LAND AREA: 
1.02-acre
(44,363 square feet)
ZONING: 
Transit-Oriented 
Development
(TOD)
APN: 
035-215-050
PROPOSED:
EXISTING:
Floor Area: 
 Building:
No change from existing
26, 077 sq. ft.
F.A.R.:
 No change from existing
0.59
BLDG. HEIGHT:
 No change from existing 
20’-1”
STORIES: 
No change from existing 
1
PROPOSED:
MINIMUM REQUIRED:
  SETBACKS:
No change from existing
NA
PARKING:
Determined by Traffic Impact 
Analysis (TIA)
Determined by Traffic Impact 
Analysis (TIA)
Weekdays 11:00am – 5:00pm
22 spaces
NA
Weekdays after 5:00pm, 
weekends, and holidays
42 spaces
NA
LOADING:
NA
NA
BICYCLE:
NA
NA
PKG.  LOT LANDSCAPING:
NA
NA
NOTES:
The information provided above is limited to the proposed area of work located within the existing 
building. No modifications are proposed for the exterior of the existing building or parking lot

--- page 60 ---
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
Technical Memorandum 
 
 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc is partnering with the City of San Mateo to assess the traffic impacts and parking 
demand generated from the proposed California Ninja Academy at 1701 Leslie Street. As part of this 
assessment, Kittelson estimated the net new trips generated by the project, assessed the current site 
circulation, accessibility, parking, and performed a vehicles miles travelled (VMT) analysis using the City’s 
adopted traffic impact assessment (TIA) guidelines1. The traffic and VMT evaluation would consider the 
potential change in traffic volumes and trip lengths from the project. The parking study would consider the 
operations of the proposed business and the existing office use to determine the adequacy of the existing 
parking lot to accommodate the proposed use. This technical memorandum compiles findings from the 
analysis into the following subsections: 
 
Project Background 
 
Trip Generation 
 
Site Access and Circulation 
 
Parking Assessment 
 
VMT Evaluation 
 
Findings 
 
Appendix – Trip Generation, Trip Reduction, and Parking Demand Evaluation 
PROJECT BACKGROUND 
California Ninja Academy, LLC proposes to operate a ninja warrior training studio at 1701 Leslie Street, which 
was previously occupied by Kirkpatrick School of Dance. The proposed business would be similar to 
Kirkpatrick in that it would oﬀer daily instructional classes led by trained instructors. The interior non-
loadbearing walls that currently divide the facility into four dance studios would be demolished, creating a 
large open training facility. The bathrooms or staﬀ break rooms will remain in the same location. There would 
also be no changes to exterior walls, including windows and doors. 
The project location is immediately adjacent to the Hayward Park Caltrain station and is connected to the 
city and regional roadway network via 17th Avenue leading to El Camino Real which provides connection 
to State Route 92 as shown in Figure 1. Access to the site is provided primarily along Leslie Street via three 
driveways. There is a one‐way inbound access driveway from 17th Avenue. There is a walking path from the 
Hayward Park Caltrain station to the property as shown in the figure. 
 
1 Transportation Impact Analysis Guidelines, City of San Mateo, California, July 16, 2020 
155 Grand Avenue, Suite 505 
Oakland, CA 94612 
P 510.839.1742  
June 1, 2022     
 
Project# 24837.007
To: 
Somer Smith, AICP 
City of San Mateo Community Development Department 
330 W 20th Ave 
San Mateo, CA 94403   
From: 
Mychal Loomis, PE/TE/PTOE/RSP and Sam Liu, EIT – Kittelson & Associates, Inc. 
RE: 
1701 Leslie St – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo - DRAFT

--- page 61 ---
June 1, 2022 
Page 2 
1701 Leslie St – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo - DRAFT   
Project Background 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
California Ninja Academy, LLC would share a parking lot with the existing office space. A shared parking 
agreement is currently in place that would designate the use with full-time access to 12 marked parking 
spaces and be able to utilize 40 parking spaces on weekends, holidays, and after 5pm on weekdays when 
larger events, including birthday parties and competitions, are more likely to occur. Figure 2 displays the 
current project site plan and information on proposed parking allocation.  
Figure 1: Project Site Location 
 
Source: Google Maps, March 2022 
Figure 2: Project Site Plan 
 
Source: City of San Mateo, October 2021

--- page 62 ---
June 1, 2022 
Page 3 
1701 Leslie St – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo - DRAFT   
Trip Generation 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
TRIP GENERATION 
PROPOSED USE 
A specialty use like a ninja academy is not defined in standard trip generation sources such as ITE’s Trip 
Generation Manual. However, a ninja academy operates with scheduled classes throughout the day that 
require guests to sign up for class ahead of time due to limited equipment and space available for guests 
to use. With this operating model, the total number of trips can be estimated using site-specific information. 
The applicant provided their proposed business plan model (see attachment) that outlines the number of 
staff and guests anticipated by time of day which was used to estimate average daily and peak hour 
person trips.  
To estimate vehicle trips from the total person trip estimates, several trip reduction factors were considered 
based on anticipated operations of the facility and the following measures that are being implemented as 
part of the project: 
 
Subsidize monthly transit passes for California Ninja Academy staff who commute to work 
 
Recruit staff from the Hayward Park neighborhood  
 
Neighorhood hour which offers membership discounts to Hayward Park residents within a 10‐15 minute 
walking distance. “Local” area more or less deﬁned by El Camino Real to the west, 21st 
Avenue/Saratoga Drive to the south, South Amphlett Boulevard to the east and 10th Avenue to the 
north. 
 
Provide bike racks and a bike repair station 
 
Prioritize parking for carpools  
 
Post CalTrain and SamTrans schedules in lobby area and on the California Ninja Academy website 
The estimated person trips, vehicle trips, and trip reductions from the proposed measures are detailed in the 
Appendix of this memorandum. Table 1 summarizes the daily and peak-hour traffic trip generation for the 
site. There is no AM weekday commute peak included because the academy does not open until 11:00 
AM on weekdays.  
Table 1: Trip Generation Estimate 
Time of day 
Number of guest 
vehicle trips 
Number of staff vehicle 
trips  
Total Estimated Vehicle 
Trips 
Daily weekday 
140 daily trips 
8 daily trips 
148 daily trips 
(74 inbound, 74 outbound) 
Weekday PM commute 
peak hour (4:00 – 6:00 PM) 
32 trips (16 in, 16 
out) 
1 trip (1 out) 
33 peak hour trips 
(16 inbound, 17 outbound) 
Weekend daily 
160 daily trips 
10 daily trips 
170 daily trips 
(85 inbound, 85 outbound) 
Weekend peak (3:30 – 
4:30 PM) 
32 trips (16 in, 16 
out) 
4 trips (1 in, 3 out) 
36 peak hour trips 
(17 inbound, 19 outbound) 
Source: Kittelson and Associates, 2022

--- page 63 ---
June 1, 2022 
Page 4 
1701 Leslie St – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo - DRAFT   
Site Access and Circulation 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
PREVIOUS USE 
The previous use that is being replaced was a dance studio. Information about the dance studio 
operations in 2018-2019 was obtained and included as an attachment. This information was used to 
estimate trip generation as trip generation rates for dance studio are not available from ITE’s Trip 
Generation Manual. Similar to the proposed use, dance studios have a maximum capacity based on 
space available and typically operate with scheduled classes throughout the day. The previous dance 
studio had four studio areas that could be utilized simultaneously.  
Trip generation calculations are provided in the Appendix and document weekday activity based on the 
dance studio schedule to estimate person trips and vehicle trips. Using this information, the trip generation is 
estimated to be 296 daily trips and 72 weekday PM peak hour trips.  
NET TRIP GENERATION 
The proposed ninja academy’s business plan refers to operations similar to the previous dance studio and is 
anticipated to generate similar trips. Based on the proposed business plan, the ninja academy has an 
estimated total trip generation of 148 daily trips. Using the previous dance studio’s schedule that had 
simultaneous classes occurring throughout the afternoons and evenings, its trip generation is estimated to 
be 296 daily trips. These trip generation estimates were calculated using the same methodology mentioned 
prior. Based on this information, trip generation for the proposed ninja academy is assumed to generate 
less daily trips than its previous dance studio use.  
SITE ACCESS AND CIRCULATION 
The project location is immediately adjacent to the Hayward Park Caltrain station and walking access 
between the station and site is approximately 600-feet using an access path just east of the building or via 
sidewalks along Leslie Street.  
Local resident access to the site would be available by walking or biking. Sidewalks are generally available 
in the area and pedestrian scale lighting and high visibility crosswalks are planned along Palm Avenue. Palm 
Avenue, located two blocks from Leslie Street, currently provides bicycle lanes and shared lane markings 
that would provide a bicycle-friendly connection from local neighborhood streets.  There are bicycle facility 
enhancements proposed along Leslie Street, 17th Avenue, 19th Avenue, and South Boulevard which would 
further improve comfort levels for those able to bike to the site. 
Vehicles driving to the site are anticipated to primarily use El Camino Real and 17th Avenue to reach Leslie 
Street. With the dedicated parking for the ninja academy located along the southern edge of the property, 
vehicles would utilize the southernmost driveway of the site, which provides two-way access and adequate 
drive aisle width. In the event that a vehicle enters any of the parking lots along Leslie Street and finds the 
parking lot is full, the vehicle may have a difficult time turning around to properly exit. Vehicles entering from 
the driveway on 17th Avenue would not have this issue as the circulation from 17th Avenue is one-way 
inbound and a vehicle would drive through the parking lot towards the driveway on Leslie Street. Roadway 
volumes near the site are generally low and operations would not be significantly affected by the proposed 
project.  
To reduce the risk of wrong-way driving on the one-way access from 17th Avenue, it is recommended that 
the project installs a one-way sign (R6-1 or R6-2) at the driveway entrance on 17th Avenue and a “Do Not 
Enter” sign (R5-1) in the parking lot at the southeast corner of the building where the one-way aisle enters the 
main parking lot.

--- page 64 ---
June 1, 2022 
Page 5 
1701 Leslie St – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo - DRAFT   
Parking Assessment 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
PARKING ASSESSMENT 
The site plan shown in Figure 2 would maintain the existing parking lot and driveways. The existing parking 
lot includes 46 parking spaces with 44 general use spaces and 2 ADA-accessible spaces. The ninja 
academy would share the parking lot with the existing general office use (currently occupied by IBEW).  
The ninja academy has a parking agreement in place that designates full-time access to 12 marked 
parking space and, 2 ADA-accessible parking spaces, and the ability to utilize up to 40 parking spaces in 
the lot on weekends, holidays, and times that the office use is closed (which is assumed to be after 5pm on 
weekdays).  
This is a similar arrangement to what was provided for the previous dance studio use. The previous dance 
studio parking analysis and proposed site plan with dedicated ninja academy parking are provided as 
attachments. Previous parking analyses relied on the City of San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.64.160 
which requires a total parking of 1 space per 335 square feet for general office buildings with a total floor 
area less than 100,000 square feet, excluding uses defined in Section 27.04.200(d). Therefore, the existing 
office space has an eligible floor area of 6,553 square feet, which resulted in a parking need of 20 spaces 
that was assumed to be needed between the hours of 8:00 AM and 5:00 PM when a general office 
building is most occupied. Given that the project site is within the City’s Rail Corridor Plan, these parking 
requirements no longer apply. However, they provide a basis for the anticipated office space’s parking 
demand to consider in this parking analysis.  
The ninja academy parking demand was estimated based on the proposed operation schedule and 
resulting vehicle trip generation. It is assumed that guests would arrive prior to the beginning of the hour 
which their class starts and depart after the end of the class, which typically end fifty minutes after the hour. 
An overlap of entering and exiting vehicles was accounted for in the parking analysis although the ten-
minute offset of classes ending and starting may reduce the actual demand.  
Detailed parking demand estimates for weekday and weekend hours are provided in the Appendix. As 
shown in the Appendix calculations, weekend parking demand was found to have a maximum parking 
demand of 36 spaces occurring around 4:00 PM. As such, this demand would be fully contained within the 
site’s 40 spaces available on weekends and no further evaluation of weekend parking is needed. The 
weekday parking demand ranges from 9 to 34 spaces depending on the time of day and associated class 
types and sizes. This demand would exceed the 12 dedicated spaces available during weekdays and 
further evaluation was completed as described in the following subsections.  
CURRENT PARKING AGREEMENT EVALUATION 
The ninja academy has a parking agreement currently in place with the existing office use that designates 
full-time access to 12 marked parking spaces during weekdays. The parking agreement also allows for use 
of all but four spaces at times when the office use is closed, which is assumed to be after 5:00 PM on 
weekdays. This would allow the ninja academy to have a parking demand up to 40 spaces in evenings 
after 5:00 PM.  
Table 2 provides a summary of the estimated weekday parking demand compared to the dedicated 
parking supply within the site’s parking lot. As shown in the table, the parking demand would exceed the 
available on-site parking during the hours of 1:00 – 5:00 PM on a weekday. During these afternoon hours, it 
is anticipated that parking supply may be short by up to 18 spaces.

--- page 65 ---
June 1, 2022 
Page 6 
1701 Leslie St – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo - DRAFT   
Parking Assessment 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
Table 2: Parking Demand Estimate – Current Parking Agreement 
Time of day 
Parking Demanda 
Dedicated On-Site 
Parking Supply  
Does demand stay within 
available supply? 
~ 11:00 AM 
9 spaces 
12 spaces 
Yes 
~ 12:00 PM 
10 spaces 
12 spaces 
Yes 
~ 1:00 PM 
18 spaces 
12 spaces 
No (-6 spaces) 
~ 2:00 PM 
16 spaces 
12 spaces 
No (-4 spaces) 
~ 3:00 PM 
16 spaces 
12 spaces 
No (-4 spaces) 
~ 4:00 PM 
19 spaces 
12 spaces 
No (-7 spaces) 
~ 5:00 PM 
30 spaces 
12 spaces 
No (-18 spaces) 
~ 6:00 PM 
34 spaces 
40 spaces 
Yes 
~ 7:00 PM 
18 spaces 
40 spaces 
Yes 
~ 8:00 PM 
18 spaces 
40 spaces 
Yes 
a 
Assumes overlap of inbound trips for upcoming class and outbound trips for recently completed class. 
Source: Kittelson and Associates, 2022 
PROPOSED PARKING AGREEMENT EVALUATION 
The ninja academy has proposed to modify their parking agreement to designate full-time access to 20 
marked parking spaces during weekdays instead of the 12 spaces currently in the agreement. The parking 
agreement would maintain the ability of the ninja academy to use all but four spaces at times when the 
office use is closed, which is assumed to be after 5:00 PM on weekdays.  
Table 3 provides a summary of the estimated weekday parking demand compared to a dedicated 
parking supply of 20 spaces within the site’s parking lot. As shown in the table, the parking demand would 
stay within the available on-site parking on a weekday with the exception being around 5:00 PM where the 
overlap of larger classes occurs while office parking demand is still assumed active. During this peak time 
on weekdays, it is anticipated that parking supply may be short by up to 10 spaces. Having the 5:00 class 
start around 5:10 would likely alleviate the situation, allowing the project to utilize more on-site spaces.

--- page 66 ---
June 1, 2022 
Page 7 
1701 Leslie St – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo - DRAFT   
Parking Assessment 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
Table 3: Parking Demand Estimate – Proposed Parking Agreement 
Time of day 
Parking Demanda 
Dedicated On-Site 
Parking Supply  
Does demand stay within 
available supply? 
~ 11:00 AM 
9 spaces 
20 spaces 
Yes 
~ 12:00 PM 
10 spaces 
20 spaces 
Yes 
~ 1:00 PM 
18 spaces 
20 spaces 
Yes 
~ 2:00 PM 
16 spaces 
20 spaces 
Yes 
~ 3:00 PM 
16 spaces 
20 spaces 
Yes 
~ 4:00 PM 
19 spaces 
20 spaces 
Yes 
~ 5:00 PM 
30 spaces 
20 spaces 
No (-10 spaces) 
~ 6:00 PM 
34 spaces 
40 spaces 
Yes 
~ 7:00 PM 
18 spaces 
40 spaces 
Yes 
~ 8:00 PM 
18 spaces 
40 spaces 
Yes 
a 
Assumes overlap of inbound trips for upcoming class and outbound trips for recently completed class. 
Source: Kittelson and Associates, 2022 
PARKING-BASED SITE CAPACITY EVALUATION 
The availability of dedicated on-site parking is a limiting factor to the ninja academy’s operations. As shown 
in the previous analyses, the on-site parking supply shared with the office space has overlapping needs 
between the two uses in the afternoon hours. The parking demand was estimated using the proposed 
business plan, which can be subject to change as needs of the business change. To align the parking 
demand with a measurable variable and allow flexibility in future operations of the ninja academy, it is 
recommended to establish a capacity of allowable people on-site during time-of-day. Using a person-
based approach will ensure the parking demand remains at constant levels while providing the ninja 
academy the opportunity to adjust class sizes, types, and times in the future.  
METHODOLOGY 
Trip reduction estimates for non-vehicle use were taken into consideration during the parking demand 
calculations and would also be included in the person-based approach. The guest trip reduction factor of 
25% and the staff trip reduction factor of 33% to account for people using a combination of transit, walking, 
bicycling, and ridesharing are utilized in the equation shown below.  
For a business that runs on scheduled class times, the amount of time between classes can have a 
significant impact on the parking demand. The methodology applied assumes class are offset between 5 - 
20 minutes, which accounts for some parking turnover to occur between classes. Other class offset options 
were calculated and are included in the Appendix.    
The number of staff that is needed varies by class. For example, youth classes require additional instructors 
to monitor and support the activities compared to an adult class. Using the provided business plan for 
guidance on typical staff-to-guest ratios, an assumption of one staff per five guests was assumed. 
With these considerations in place, the following assumptions are key to the methodology:

--- page 67 ---
June 1, 2022 
Page 8 
1701 Leslie St – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo - DRAFT   
Parking Assessment 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
 
For every guest capacity available, 1.35 parking spaces needs to be accommodated. This 
methodology assumes classes are offset by 5 - 20 minutes of each other. 
 
For every staff on site, 0.67 parking spaces needs to be accommodated. 
 
Estimates 1 staff per 5 guests to account for hosts, instructors, and other potential staff needs. 
 
Round calculations up to the next whole number. 
Using these parameters, the number of parking spaces can be correlated to an hourly person-capacity. 
The following equation was developed to calculate hourly class and staff person-capacity for the site. 
More detailed steps to arrive at this correlation is provided in the Appendix. 
Hourly class and staff person-capacity = # of parking spaces * 0.67 
It is important to note that the person-capacity used in this evaluation relates only to the total of the class 
capacity and staff. It does not account for total persons on-site such as parents or other non-class 
attendees that may physically be on site. 
SCENARIOS 
Three parking-based site capacity scenarios were evaluated for the following relevant parking supply 
scenarios: 12 spaces, 20 spaces, and 40 spaces. However, the methodology used could be applied to any 
other parking supply numbers that are considered during approval of the project or in future modifications 
to the parking agreement.  
The following two calculations would be applicable to weekday hours before 5 PM:  
 
12 parking spaces * 0.67 = 8 class and staff hourly person-capacity (applied if using current shared 
parking agreement) 
 
 
20 parking spaces * 0.67 = 14 class and staff hourly person-capacity (applied if using proposed 
shared parking agreement) 
The following calculations would be applicable to weekday hours after 5 PM and on weekends with the 
current or proposed parking agreement: 
 
40 parking spaces * 0.67 = 27 class and staff hourly person-capacity 
PARKING EVALUATION SUMMARY 
The parking assessment found that the current shared parking arrangement would not be adequate to 
capture the anticipated parking demand on-site. A proposed revision to the parking agreement to 
increase the dedicated spaces for the project from 12 to 20 would provide the needing parking supply 
except potentially at 5:00 PM, which could be alleviated by having the 5:00 class start around 5:10.  
To allow flexibility in future operations of the business, an equation was developed to correlate the number 
of dedicated parking spaces with the number of hourly class and staff person-capacity.  The equation 
assumes a 5 – 20 minute offset between classes and accounts for non-vehicle trips.  
Hourly class and staff person-capacity = # of parking spaces * 0.67 
This equation was applied to the 12, 20, and 40 parking space scenarios and found them to be feasible 
with the proposed ninja academy business plan.

--- page 68 ---
June 1, 2022 
Page 9 
1701 Leslie St – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo - DRAFT   
VMT Evaluation 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
VMT EVALUATION 
Screening Criteria 
Per the City Guidelines, a project requires a detailed VMT analysis per SB 743 unless it meets at least one of 
the city’s five screening criteria: 
 
Small projects 
 
Provision of affordable housing 
 
Local-serving retail and public services 
 
Project located in a High-Quality Transit Area (HQTA) 
 
Project located in low VMT area 
Table 4 summarizes the screening criteria and results for the proposed project. As the table indicates, the 
project would satisfy the City’s screening criteria, and therefore no further VMT analysis is required. 
Table 4: VMT Screening Criteria and Results 
Criteria 
Result 
Small project (less than 
110 trips per day) 
No, the proposed project is estimated to generate a total of 148 daily trips.  
Provision of affordable 
housing 
No, the proposed project does not add any residential units 
Local-serving retail and 
public services 
Yes, the proposed project is considered a locally-serving retail fitness facility 
with 26,077 square feet2 
Project located in a 
HQTA 
No, even though the proposed project is located within ½ mile of Hayward 
Park Caltrain station (see attachments) this presumption is not applicable 
because the project has a FAR of 0.62 which is less than the required 0.75. 
Evaluation of determining if this criterion can be applicable includes the 
following factors, which must all be met as “yes”: 
 
has a floor area ratio (FAR) greater than 0.75 – no, 0.62 
 
does not include more parking for use by residents, customers, or 
employees of the project than required by the jurisdiction – yes, there 
is no parking requirement for the project 
 
is consistent with the applicable Metropolitan Transportation 
Commission’s (MTC) Sustainable Communities Strategy (SCS), as 
determined by the City – yes  
 
does not replace affordable residential units with a smaller number of 
moderate- or high-income residential units – yes 
Project located in low 
VMT area 
No, the proposed project is in traffic analysis zone (TAZ) 3031 with an 
average of 16.4 VMT per employee – see attachments 
 
2 Section 2.1.1.3 Local-Serving Retail and Public Services of the San Mateo Transportation Impact Analysis Guidelines dated 
July 16, 2020 states “Groceries, medicines, fast food and casual restaurants, fitness and beauty services are typical goods 
and services provided by local-serving retail centers”.

--- page 69 ---
June 1, 2022 
Page 10 
1701 Leslie St – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo - DRAFT   
Findings 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
VMT Impact Discussion 
For purposes of VMT evaluation, the project would be considered a local-serving retail that would screen 
out of further VMT analysis. As a result of the VMT evaluation, the proposed project is not anticipated to 
have a VMT impact. 
Additional reasons supporting the finding that the proposed redevelopment project, changing the use 
from a dance studio to a ninja academy, is not expected to generate a significant VMT impact include: 
 
The project is replacing a dance studio that is estimated to previously generate over 200 daily trips 
and would result in a reduction in net daily and PM peak hour trips. 
 
There will be little to no increase in staff employment or total vehicle trips at California Ninja Academy 
when compared to the previous dance studio use.  
 
Several trip reduction measures are incorporated into the project’s operating business plan to reduce 
vehicle miles travelled and encourage non-vehicle trips for all users.  
 
The facility is marketing to local residents (e.g., targeted discounts to residents of Hayward Park) and 
those using Caltrain to attract those that can access the site through short vehicle trip lengths or non-
vehicle trips. 
 
There are currently no parks, play structures, or recreational facilities within a 1000 feet radius of the 
facility, so the project provides residents nearby with a local recreational option that would reduce trip 
lengths when compared to other similar options in the region. 
FINDINGS 
Kittelson & Associates completed an assessment of potential traffic impacts and parking demand 
generated from the proposed California Ninja Academy at 1701 Leslie Street in the City of San Mateo. The 
project is providing trip reduction measures that are anticipated to be beneficial in reducing vehicle trips to 
the site.  
Trip Generation 
The project is anticipated to reduce its vehicle trips by at least 25% through several transportation demand 
measures the applicant has committed to. This would be consistent with a goal of the San Mateo Rail 
Corridor Transit Oriented Development Plan.  
The resulting vehicle trip generation after applying trip reduction measures to person trips calculated from 
the proposed business model is estimated to be 148 daily trips on a typical weekday and 170 daily trips on 
a weekend, with 33 trips during the weekday afternoon peak period. The net trip generation is estimated to 
decrease when compared to the previous dance studio and, therefore, the project would not have a 
significant effect on traffic operations in the area.  
VMT 
The project was found to not have a significant impact on vehicle miles travelled (VMT) due to its local-
serving business model as a fitness service.

--- page 70 ---
June 1, 2022 
Page 11 
1701 Leslie St – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo - DRAFT   
Findings 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
Parking 
The project currently has a parking agreement for the shared parking lot designating 12 full-time parking 
spaces and up to 40 available spaces during times when the adjacent office use is not being utilized. The 
parking assessment found that parking demand would exceed the available on-site parking during the 
hours of 1:00 – 5:00 PM on a weekday.   
A proposed revision to the parking agreement to increase the dedicated spaces for the project from 12 to 
20 would provide the needing parking supply except potentially at 5:00 PM, which could be alleviated by 
having the 5:00 class start around 5:10.  
To allow flexibility in future operations of the business, an equation was developed to correlate the number 
of dedicated parking spaces with the number of hourly class and staff person-capacity.  The equation, 
shown below, assumes a 5 – 20 minute offset between classes and accounts for non-vehicle trips.  
Hourly class and staff person-capacity = # of parking spaces * 0.67 
Weekend parking demand was found to be fully contained within the site’s 40 spaces.  
Site Circulation 
To reduce the risk of wrong-way driving on the one-way access from 17th Avenue, it is recommended that 
the project installs a one-way sign (R6-1 or R6-2) at the driveway entrance on 17th Avenue and a “Do Not 
Enter” sign (R5-1) in the parking lot at the southeast corner of the building where the one-way aisle enters the 
main parking lot.

--- page 71 ---
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
APPENDIX   
Trip Generation, Trip Reduction, and Parking Demand 
Evaluation 
Trip generation for the project was estimated by calculating the person trips that would be generated by 
the proposed project based on business operations information provided by the applicant and then 
estimating the number of vehicle trips that would occur.  The ITE Trip Generation Handbook 3rd Edition 
defines person trips and vehicle trips as follows: 
The term “person trips” refers to trips made to or from a site by each individual person using any mode 
(personal passenger vehicle, truck, pedestrian, transit, bicycle). Two people in a personal passenger 
vehicle counts as two person trips. “Vehicle trip” generation refers to the number of vehicles traveling to or 
from a site. If a vehicle has two people in it, it still counts as one vehicle trip. 
Non-vehicle trips (transit, bicycle, walking, rideshare) were estimated based on a review of the site location 
and adjacent connections, operation considerations of the use, and trip reduction measures being 
provided by the applicant. Staff and guest trips were evaluated separately, as there are specific measures 
and travel patterns that would be different between the two user types. 
PERSON TRIP ESTIMATES 
Based on the business plan provided as an attachment, the total person trips for the site can be estimated. 
The total person trips were calculated by summing the daily capacity provided in the business plan. The 
business plan shows the maximum guest capacity and staff requirement of each class by the hour.  
Guests: 
 
Total weekday capacity person trips: 90 persons * 2 trips per person = 180 person trips 
 
Total weekend capacity person trips: 100 persons * 2 trips per person = 200 person trips 
Staff: 
 
Total weekday capacity person trips: 6 persons * 2 trips per person = 10 person trips 
 
Total weekend capacity person trips: 7 persons * 2 trips per person = 14 person trips 
VEHICLE TRIP ESTIMATES  
The location and operations of the proposed ninja academy indicate that some ridesharing and non-
vehicle trips (transit, walking/biking) would be reasonable and should be accounted for. Further, to align 
with the Rail Corridor Plan’s corridor‐wide reduction goals, the City of San Mateo aims to reduce new 
vehicle trips by at least 25%. The following proposed trip reduction measures are included as a part of the 
project to help achieve this goal: 
 
Subsidize monthly transit passes for California Ninja Academy staff who commute to work 
 
Recruit staff from the Hayward Park neighborhood  
 
Neighorhood hour which offers membership discounts to Hayward Park residents within a 10‐15 minute 
walking distance. “Local” area more or less deﬁned by El Camino Real to the west, 21st 
Avenue/Saratoga Drive to the south, South Amphlett Boulevard to the east and 10th Avenue to the 
north.

--- page 72 ---
June 1, 2022 
Page 13 
1701 Leslie St – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo - DRAFT   
Appendix 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
 
Provide bike racks and a bike repair station 
 
Prioritize parking for carpools  
 
Post CalTrain and SamTrans schedules in lobby area and on the California Ninja Academy website 
Each of these measures can be attributed a maximum percent trip reduction based on our independent 
analysis of the reduction specific to the site’s location, use, and operations plan and use of CAPCOA’s 
Handbook for Analyzing Greenhouse Gas Emission Reductions, Assessing Climate Vulnerabilities, and 
Advancing Health and Equity4. The assumed trip reduction and reasoning is denoted in Tables A-1 and A-2. 
These measures have been assessed to achieve vehicle trip reductions by at least 25% for both guests and 
staff. These measures may vary in their actual performance for the project itself; however, the diverse 
options provided by the project are anticipated to meet or exceed the 25% new vehicle trip reduction 
goal.  
Guests: 
- 
Transit Use: 12.5% trip reduction estimate 
o 
Posted public transit schedules on-site and online 
o 
Community-based travel planning (focused marketing on Caltrain users) 
- 
Walking/Biking: 2.5% - 20% trip reduction estimate 
o 
Discount to Hayward Park residents 
o 
On-site bike racks 
- 
Ridesharing: 10% trip reduction estimate 
o 
Carpooling 
o 
Community-based travel planning (focused marketing on Hayward Park area) 
Total Guest Trip Reduction Estimate = 25% reduction (12.5% transit + 2.5% walking/biking + 10% ridesharing) 
Total Guest Trip Reduction Estimate (Neighborhood hour) = 42.5% reduction (12.5% transit + 20% 
walking/biking + 10% ridesharing) 
Staff: 
- 
Transit Use: 16.7% trip reduction estimate (1 out of 6 staff) 
o 
Implement Commute Trip Reduction Program (Voluntary) 
o 
Subsidized monthly transit passes for staff 
o 
Posted public transit schedules on-site and online 
- 
Walk/Bike Use: 16.7% trip reduction estimate (1 out of 6 staff) 
o 
Staff recruitment from Hayward Park 
o 
On-site bike racks 
Total Employee Trip Reduction Estimate = 2 out of 6 staff = 33%. The maximum employee commute VMT 
reduction from Trip Reduction programs according to CAPCOA is capped at 45 percent. The assumptions 
made are within that range of reduction.  
These trip reductions were applied to the class and staff capacities (person trips) to estimate the vehicle 
trip generation for the proposed use and resulted in 148 weekday daily vehicle trips and 170 weekend 
daily vehicle trips. An hourly breakdown of person and vehicle patterns for weekday and weekend use are 
shown in Tables A-3 and A-4, respectively.  
 
 
4 California Air Pollution Control Officers Association’s Handbook for Analyzing Greenhouse Gas Emission Reductions, 
Assessing Climate Vulnerabilities, and Advancing Health and Equity, Final Draft December 2021

--- page 73 ---
June 1, 2022 
Page 14 
1701 Leslie St – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo - DRAFT   
Appendix 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
Table A-1. Guest Trip Reduction Evaluation 
Trip Reduction 
Strategy 
Reasoning 
Industry Metrics 
Project Metric 
Evaluation  
Assumed 
Project % Trip 
Reduction 
Transit Use 
Posted public 
transit 
schedules on-
site and 
online 
Providing accessible 
public transit schedules 
encourage transit 
ridership, thereby 
reducing the number 
of single occupancy 
vehicle trips. 
Employee trips using 
Public transportation 
ranged from 2.02% - 
19.86% with the 
project’s census tract 
having 9.25% transit 
use. 
 
 
The project is 
adjacent to the 
Hayward Park 
station and is 
targeting Caltrain 
users to 
encourage transit 
use. 
 
Assumes an 
average of 12.5% 
(1 out of 8) guests 
would utilize transit 
12.5% 
Provide 
Community-
Based Travel 
Planning 
This measure targets 
residences in the 
plan/community with  
community-based 
travel planning.  It 
includes outreach that 
provides households 
with customized 
information, incentives, 
and support to 
encourage the  
use of transportation 
alternatives in place of 
single occupancy  
vehicles. 
CAPCOA T-23 
estimates up to 2.3% 
reduction.  
Walking and Biking 
Discounts to 
Hayward Park 
residents 
Reducing the out-of-
pocket cost for 
membership within 
walking distance of the 
facility encourages 
walking and 
carpooling, thereby 
reducing vehicle trips. 
CAPCOA T-23 
indicates an average 
of 19% of residents 
targeted will 
participate, resulting 
in a 12% trip reduction 
among participating 
residences.  
Assumes 2.5% (1 
out of 40) of 
regular hour 
guests would be 
walking or 
bicycling trips. 
 
Assumes 20% (4 
out of 20) of 
neighborhood 
hour guests would 
be walking or 
bicycling trips. 
2.5% regular 
hours; 
20% 
neighborhood 
hour 
On-site bike 
racks 
The provision of secure 
bike parking and 
related facilities 
encourages 
commuting by bicycle, 
CAPCOA T-10 
documents a 
maximum reduction 
of 4.4%.  
 
Assumes guests 
would be 
encouraged to 
bicycle instead of 
drive and have a

--- page 74 ---
June 1, 2022 
Page 15 
1701 Leslie St – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo - DRAFT   
Appendix 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
 
 
 
Trip Reduction 
Strategy 
Reasoning 
Industry Metrics 
Project Metric 
Evaluation  
Assumed 
Project % Trip 
Reduction 
thereby reducing 
vehicle trips. 
Bicycle trips are 
estimated to account 
for about 5.6% of 
commute trips in the 
project site’s census 
tract and within San 
Mateo. 
higher % of 
bicycling trips. 
Ridesharing 
Carpooling 
 
Includes adjustments 
for carpooling as it is 
anticipated that not all 
trips are single-
occupancy vehicle 
trips for a scheduled 
recreational activity. 
The amount of 
carpooling that 
occurs varies by land 
use and is difficult to 
quantify.  
Assumes an 
average of 10% (1 
out of 10) guests 
would utilize 
carpooling (i.e., 
friends, partners, 
families). 
10% 
Provide 
Community-
Based Travel 
Planning 
This measure targets 
residences in the 
plan/community with  
outreach that provides 
households with  
customized 
information, incentives, 
and support to 
encourage the  
use of transportation 
alternatives in place of 
single occupancy  
vehicles. 
CAPCOA T-23 
estimates up to 2.3% 
reduction.  
Prioritize 
carpool 
parking on-
site 
Ridesharing 
encourages carpooled 
vehicle trips in place of 
single-occupied 
vehicle trips, thereby 
reducing the number 
of trips. 
Recommended for 
on-site parking to 
further encourage 
ridesharing beyond 
the assumed levels.

--- page 75 ---
June 1, 2022 
Page 16 
1701 Leslie St – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo - DRAFT   
Appendix 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
Table A-2. Employee Trip Reduction Evaluation 
Trip Reduction 
Strategy 
Reasoning 
Industry Metrics 
Project Metric 
Evaluation  
Assumed 
Project % Trip 
Reduction 
Transit Use 
 
Implement 
Commute Trip 
Reduction 
Program 
(Voluntary) 
This measure will 
implement a voluntary 
commute trip 
reduction  
program that 
discourages single-
occupancy 
vehicle trips and 
encourages alternative 
modes of  
transportation such as 
carpooling, taking 
transit, walking, and  
biking, thereby 
reducing trips.  
CAPCOA T-5 
estimates up to 4% 
reduction. 
There are 
assumed to be 
6 staff (hosts + 
instructors) per 
day. Staff 
would regularly 
commute to 
and from the 
project site.  
 
Assumes at 
least 1 of the 6 
staff would use 
transit each 
day. The 
resulting 16% 
percent is on 
the high end of 
industry metrics 
due to the low 
number of total 
staff.  
16% 
Subsidized 
monthly transit 
passes for staff 
Reducing the out-of-
pocket cost for 
choosing transit 
improves the 
competitiveness of 
transit against driving, 
increasing the total 
number of transit trips 
and decreasing 
vehicle trips. 
Employee trips using 
Public transportation 
ranged from 2.02% - 
19.86% with the 
project’s census tract 
having 9.25% transit 
use. 
 
Assuming a 100% 
reimbursement of a 
$76.80 1-zone 
monthly pass for all 
staff, CAPCOA T-9 
estimates up to a 
2.0% reduction. 
($76.80/$76.80 x -
0.43) x 100% x 100% x 
9.25% x 50% x 1 = 
2.0% 
Posted public 
transit schedules 
on-site and 
online 
Providing accessible 
public transit schedules 
encourage transit 
ridership, thereby 
reducing the number 
of single occupancy 
vehicle trips. 
Employee trips using 
Public transportation 
ranged from 2.02% - 
19.86% with the 
project’s census tract 
having 9.25% transit 
use.

--- page 76 ---
June 1, 2022 
Page 17 
1701 Leslie St – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo - DRAFT   
Appendix 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
Trip Reduction 
Strategy 
Reasoning 
Industry Metrics 
Project Metric 
Evaluation  
Assumed 
Project % Trip 
Reduction 
Walking and Biking 
Staff recruitment 
from Hayward 
Park 
Hiring staff within 
walking distance of the 
facility encourages 
walking and 
carpooling, thereby 
reducing vehicle trips.  
 
 
There are 
assumed to be 
6 staff (hosts + 
instructors) per 
day. Staff 
would regularly 
commute to 
and from the 
project site.  
 
Assumes at 
least one of the 
staff would 
walk instead of 
drive. 
16% 
On-site bike 
racks 
The provision of secure 
bike parking and 
related facilities 
encourages 
commuting by bicycle, 
thereby reducing 
vehicle trips. 
CAPCOA T-10 
documents a 
maximum reduction 
of 4.4%.  
 
Bicycle trips are 
estimated to 
account for about 
5.6% of commute 
trips in the project 
site’s census tract 
and within San 
Mateo .

--- page 77 ---
June 1, 2022 
Page 18 
1701 Leslie St – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo - DRAFT   
Appendix 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
Table A-3. Weekday Hourly Trip Estimates 
Time of day 
Class 
Capacity & 
Staffing 
Change in 
Guests 
Guest Vehicle 
Trips a 
Change 
in Staff 
Staff Vehicle 
 Trips b 
Before 11:00 AM 
closed 
0 
0 
+1 
1 in 
11:00 AM 
10 guests 
2 staff 
+10 
8 in 
0 
0 
12:00 
Same class as 
11:00 
0 
0 
+1 
1 in 
1:00 PM 
10 guests 
3 staff 
+10, -10 
8 in, 8 out 
0 
0 
2:00  
(Neighborhood Hour) 
10 locals 
3 staff 
+10, -10 
6 in, 8 out 
0 
0 
3:00 
10 guests 
3 staff 
+10, -10 
8 in, 6 out 
+2 
1 in 
4:00 
10 guests 
4 staff 
+10, -10 
8 in, 8 out 
0 
0 
5:00 
20 guests 
4 staff 
+20, -10 
16 in, 8 out 
+2 , -2 
1 in, 2 out 
6:00 
20 guests 
3 staff 
+20, -20 
16 in, 16 out 
-1 
1 out 
7:00 
Same class as 
6:00 
0 
0 
0 
0 
8:00 and after 
closed 
-20 
16 out 
-3 
2 out 
Total 
 
 
70 in, 70 out 
 
4 in, 4 out 
a 
The guest trip adjustment factor of 25% is applied to account for a combination of transit trips, walking and 
bicycling trips, and ridesharing (i.e., friends, families, partners). The neighborhood hour from 2:00 – 3:00 PM has 
an adjustment factor of 42.5%. 
b 
The staff trip adjustment factor of 33% is applied to account for transit, walking and bicycling trips.

--- page 78 ---
June 1, 2022 
Page 19 
1701 Leslie St – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo - DRAFT   
Appendix 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
Table A-4. Weekend Trip Estimates 
Time of day 
Class Capacity & 
Staffing 
Change in 
Guests 
Guest Vehicle 
Trips a 
Change in 
Staff 
Staff Vehicle 
Trips b 
Before 10:00 AM 
Closed 
0 
0 
+4 
3 in 
10:00 AM 
20 guests 
4 staff 
+20 
16 in 
0 
0 
11:00 AM 
Same class as 10:00 
0 
0 
0 
0 
12:00 
20 guests 
4 staff 
+20, -20 
16 in, 16 out 
0 
0 
1:00 PM 
Same class as 12:00 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2:00  
 
20 guests 
4 staff 
+20, -20 
16 in, 16 out 
0 
0 
3:00 
Same class as 2:00 
0 
0 
0 
0 
4:00 
20 guests 
2 staff 
+20, -20 
16 in, 16 out 
+2, -4  
1 in, 3 out 
5:00 
Same class as 4:00 
0 
0 
0 
0 
6:00 
20 guests 
3 staff 
+20, -20 
16 in, 16 out 
+1 
1 in 
7:00 
Same class as 6:00 
0 
0 
0 
0 
8:00 and after 
Closed 
-20 
16 out 
-3 
2 out 
Total 
 
 
80 in, 80 out 
 
5 in, 5 out 
a 
The guest trip adjustment factor of 25% is applied to the adjusted capacity to account for a combination of 
transit trips, walking and bicycling trips, and ridesharing (i.e., friends, families, partners).  
b 
The employee trip adjustment factor of 33% is applied to the staff trips to account for transit, walking and 
bicycling trips.

--- page 79 ---
June 1, 2022 
Page 20 
1701 Leslie St – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo - DRAFT   
Appendix 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
PARKING DEMAND ESTIMATES 
The trip generation estimates were used to calculate estimated parking demand by time of day for the 
proposed site. It is assumed that guests would arrive prior to the beginning of the hour which their class 
starts and depart after the end of the class, which typically end fifty minutes after the hour. An overlap of 
entering and exiting is reflected in the parking analysis although the ten-minute offset of classes ending and 
starting may reduce the actual demand. An hourly breakdown of guest and staff vehicle patterns for 
weekday and weekend use are shown in Tables A-5 and A-6, respectively.  
Table A-5. Weekday Parking Demand Estimates 
Time of day 
Number of guest vehicles 
Number of staff vehicles 
Parking Demanda 
~ 11:00 AM 
8 
1 
9 spaces 
~ 12:00 PM 
8 
2 
10 spaces 
~ 1:00 PM 
16 
2 
18 spaces 
~ 2:00 PM 
14 
2 
16 spaces 
~ 3:00 PM 
14 
2 
16 spaces 
~ 4:00 PM 
16 
3 
19 spaces 
~ 5:00 PM 
24 
6 
30 spaces 
~ 6:00 PM 
32 
2 
34 spaces 
~ 7:00 PM 
16 
2 
18 spaces 
~ 8:00 PM 
16 
2 
18 spaces 
a 
Parking demand assumes overlap of inbound trips for the upcoming class and outbound trips for the recently 
completed class. 
Table A-6. Weekend Parking Demand Estimates 
Time of day 
Number of guest 
vehicles 
Number of staff 
vehicles 
Parking Demanda 
~ 10:00 AM 
16 
3 
19 spaces 
~ 11:00 AM 
16 
3 
19 spaces 
~ 12:00 PM 
32 
3 
35 spaces 
~ 1:00 PM 
16 
3 
19 spaces 
~ 2:00 PM 
32 
3 
35 spaces 
~ 3:00 PM 
16 
3 
19 spaces 
~ 4:00 PM 
32 
4 
36 spaces 
~ 5:00 PM 
16 
1 
17 spaces 
~ 6:00 PM 
32 
2 
34 spaces 
~ 7:00 PM 
16 
2 
18 spaces 
~ 8:00 PM 
16 
2 
18 spaces 
a 
Parking demand assumes overlap of inbound trips for the upcoming class and outbound trips for the recently 
completed class.

--- page 80 ---
June 1, 2022 
Page 21 
1701 Leslie St – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo - DRAFT   
Appendix 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
DANCE STUDIO TRIP GENERATION ESTIMATE 
Based on the 2018-2019 schedule obtained and shown as an attachment, the following classes were 
identified for a typical weekday (Tuesday – Thursday).  Each class is assumed to have a 12 person capacity 
based on the class descriptions provided. 
Table A-7. Dance Studio Weekday Class Schedule Summary 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Tiny Dance (2:30 – 3:15) 
Little Stars (3:30 – 4:30) 
Super Stars (10:00 – 11:00) 
Kinderdance (3:30 – 4:30) 
Tap 1 (3:30 – 4:30) 
Tiny Dance (2:30 – 3:15) 
Combo GP (3:30 – 4:30) 
Ballet 2 (3:30 – 4:30) 
Super Stars (2:30 – 3:30) 
Ballet 4 (4:00 – 5:30) 
Ballet Intro (3:30 – 4:30) 
Kinderdance (3:30 – 4:30) 
Modern Beginning (4:00 – 5:30) 
Tap 4 (4:30 – 5:30) 
Jazz 1 (3:30 – 4:30) 
Tap 6/7 (4:30 – 5:30) 
Ballet 3 (4:30 – 5:30) 
Ballet 4 (4:00 – 5:30) 
Ballet 3 (4:30 – 5:30) 
Ballet 1 (4:30 – 5:30) 
Ballet 3 (4:30 – 5:30) 
Ballet 5/6 (5:30 – 7:00) 
Jazz Intro (4:30 – 5:30) 
Tap 5 (4:30 – 5:30) 
Ballet Inter. (5:30 – 7:00) 
Tap Intro (5:30 – 6:30) 
Tap Inter. (4:30 – 5:30) 
Jazz 4 (5:30 – 6:30) 
Tap Advanced (5:30 – 6:30) 
Ballet 5/6 (5:30 – 7:00) 
Hip Hop Teen (6:30 – 7:30) 
Jazz 3 (5:30 – 6:30) 
Ballet Inter. (5:30 – 7:00) 
Ballet Adv. (7:00 – 8:30) 
Jazz 5 (5:30 – 6:30) 
Ballet Teen (5:30 – 6:30) 
Jazz 5/6 (7:00 – 8:30) 
Jazz Inter. (6:30 – 8:00) 
Jazz 2 (5:30 – 6:30) 
 
Modern Advanced (6:30 – 8:00) 
Jazz Teen (6:30 – 7:30) 
 
Ballet 4/5 (6:30 – 8:00) 
Hip Hop Advanced (6:30 – 7:30) 
 
 
Ballet Adv. (7:00 – 8:30) 
Total classes =13 
Total estimated class capacity = 
156 
Total estimated instructors = 4 
Total classes =15 
Total estimated class capacity = 
180 
Total estimated instructors = 5 
Total classes =16 
Total estimated class capacity = 
192 
Total estimated instructors = 6

--- page 81 ---
June 1, 2022 
Page 22 
1701 Leslie St – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo - DRAFT   
Appendix 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
Person Trips 
As shown in Table A-7, Thursday would have the highest daily trip generation with an estimated 192 
students and 6 instructors. Applying two trips (one inbound, one outbound) to each person, this results in 
384 student person trips and 12 instructor person trips, 
Vehicle Trips 
For the conversion from person trips to vehicle trips, the same adjustment factor calculated for the ninja 
academy operations is used for comparison purposes between the proposed ninja academy and previous 
dance studio use. Applying the 25% adjustment factor to students and 33% adjustment factor to instructors 
results in an estimated 288 student daily trips and 8 instructor daily trips, for a total daily trip generation of 
296 vehicle trips. 
The dance studio had much more clustered timeframes, with all but one class occurring between 2:30 – 
8:30 PM. The peak afternoon time has four classes ending at 5:30 PM and four classes beginning at 5:30 PM, 
which would generate 36 inbound trips and 36 outbound trips (4 classes x 12 person trips per class x 0.75 
vehicle trips per person trips, calculated for both inbound and outbound direction).

--- page 82 ---
June 1, 2022 
Page 23 
1701 Leslie St – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo - DRAFT   
Appendix 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
PARKING-BASED SITE CAPACITY EQUATION 
In developing the equation for class and staff capacity based on parking spaces, the amount of time 
(offset) between classes was a key consideration. For a business that runs on scheduled class times, the 
amount of time between classes can have a significant impact on the parking demand. The following 
demonstrates different offset calculations performed. Each scenario uses a baseline 25% reduction for 
guest trips and 33% reduction for staff trips based on the trip reduction evaluation performed in this study. 
Further, it includes the estimate of 1 staff per 5 guests to account for hosts, instructors, and other potential 
staff needs.  
If classes are not offset by at least 5 minutes, then no parking demand factor adjustment is applied and a 
rate of 1.5 parking spaces per guest is used in the calculations. For every staff on site, 0.67 parking spaces 
needs to be accommodated. The following equation was developed to calculate class and staff person-
capacity for the site with no offset between classes: 
# of parking spaces = (# of people (guests) * 1.5) + (# of people (staff) * 0.67)  
# of parking spaces = (# of people (guests) * 1.5) + (# of people ([guests/5]) * 0.67)   
# of parking spaces = (# of people * 1.5) + (# of people * 0.134)  
# of parking spaces = # of people * 1.634 
# of people = # of parking spaces / 1.634 
# of people = # of parking spaces * 0.61 (assuming no offset between classes) 
If classes are offset between 5 – 20 minutes, then an 80% factor is used to account for overlap between 
classes. This accounts for parking turnover times that have inconsistent patterns depending on the amount 
of time guests stay after class, how early guests arrive before their class, and how long loading and 
unloading vehicles can take. For every staff on site, 0.67 parking spaces needs to be accommodated. The 
following equation was developed to calculate class and staff person-capacity for the site with a 5 – 20 
minute offset between classes: 
# of parking spaces = (# of people (guests) * 1.35) + (# of people (staff) * 0.67)  
# of parking spaces = (# of people (guests) * 1.35) + (# of people ([guests/5]) * 0.67)   
# of parking spaces = (# of people * 1.35) + (# of people * 0.134)  
# of parking spaces = # of people * 1.484 
# of people = # of parking spaces / 1.484  
# of people = # of parking spaces * 0.67 (assuming a 5- 20 minute offset between classes) 
If class offsets are greater than 20 minutes, then no parking demand factor is applied and a rate of 0.75 
parking spaces per guest is used in the calculations. For every staff on site, 0.67 parking spaces needs to be 
accommodated. The following equation was developed to calculate class and staff person-capacity for 
the site with at least a 20 minute offset between classes: 
# of parking spaces = (# of people (guests) * 0.75) + (# of people (staff) * 0.67)

--- page 83 ---
June 1, 2022 
Page 24 
1701 Leslie St – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo - DRAFT   
Appendix 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
# of parking spaces = (# of people (guests) * 0.75) + (# of people ([guests/5]) * 0.67)   
# of parking spaces = (# of people * 0.75) + (# of people * 0.134)  
# of parking spaces = # of people * 0.884 
# of people = # of parking spaces / 0.884 
# of people = # of parking spaces * 1.13 (assuming at least 20 minute offset between classes)

--- page 84 ---
June 1, 2022 
Page 25 
1701 Leslie St – Traffic and Parking Statement Memo - DRAFT   
Appendix 
Kittelson & Associates, Inc.  
  
Attachments – Supporting Documents 
 
Ninja Academy Business Plan 
 
Dance Studio 2018-19 Class Schedule 
 
Dance Studio Site Plan and Parking Evaluation 
 
VMT Evaluation Maps

--- page 85 ---
California Ninja Academy, LLC 
Special Use Permit Applica:on 
- Business Informa:on 
Zoning……………………………………………..….. 2 
Neighborhood-Serving Business………….. 3 
Commuter-Serving Business………………… 6 
Fitness Studio Opera:onal Model …….… 7 
Opera:ng Hours………………………………….. 9 
Capacity……………………………………………… 14 
Staﬃng………………………………………..…..… 16 
Applicant: California Ninja Academy, LLC., Regan Fletcher owner 
Property Owner: Electrical Workers Building Inc. 
Project Address: 1701 Leslie Street, Suite 100 
1

--- page 86 ---
Zoning 
1701 Leslie Street is zoned for C-1 Neighborhood Commercial within the 
Railroad Corridor Transit-Oriented Plan. The proposed business ﬁts within the 
current zoning for a number of reasons: 
 
1.  California Ninja Academy will provide a recrea:onal beneﬁt to the 
 immediate neighborhood in support of the objec:ves laid out in sec:on 
 2-7 of the plan 
2.  Because of this neighborhood recrea:onal oﬀering, California Ninja 
 Academy will draw a large part of its membership from the immediate 
 neighborhood 
3.  California Ninja Academy will be ideally located to market itself to 
 Caltrain commuters as a convenient stop on their way home for a 
 workout 
4.  California Ninja Academy will have an opera:onal model similar to that 
 of a local yoga studio or mar:al arts dojo 
2

--- page 87 ---
RRCT-O Plan: 
Neighborhood Recrea:on Beneﬁt 
2-7 Conserva-on, Open Space, Parks and Recrea-on Element 
 
“Within the element are several policies intended to ensure the protec4on of important natural and 
urban resources, and parks and recrea4onal facili4es.” 
Despite oﬀering three-bedroom units, the 
Sta4on Park Green development, directly 
across the RR tracks from 1701 Leslie, was 
approved despite not oﬀering any play 
structures for kids.  
 
California Ninja Academy will oﬀer residents 
of the immediate neighborhood a locals’ 
discount (see neighborhood map on page 
10) . We will oﬀer a family-focused 
recrea:onal opportunity that will be a short 
walk for neighborhood residents. In addi:on 
to the locals’ discount, there will be a 
dedicated hour each weekday just for 
neighborhood residents to use the facility. 
3

--- page 88 ---
Neighborhood-Serving Recrea:on 
California Ninja Academy will oﬀer a walkable recrea:onal beneﬁt 
to the immediate neighborhood. There are currently no parks, play 
structures or recrea:onal facili:es within a 1000’ radius of 1701 Leslie. 
Hayward 
Trinta 
Concar 
Sunnybrae 
1,000’ 
4

--- page 89 ---
Neighborhood Hour 
5 
Discounted admission from 2pm to 3pm for Hayward Park locals who can walk to the gym. See ‘Opera:ng Hours’.

--- page 90 ---
RRCT-O Plan: Commuter-Serving 
5-12 Ground Floor Retail Uses 
“These uses should only be neighborhood and commuter serving…” 
 
In addi:on to adding a recrea:onal beneﬁt that serves the immediate neighborhood, California Ninja 
Academy will be ideally situated for Caltrain commuters as well: 
•  Targeted social media ads, as well as a sign facing the RR tracks, will promote California Ninja 
Academy to commuters as a place to de-stress on their way home from work 
•  Commu:ng members of California Ninja Academy will ﬁnd a number of convenient retail 
services nearby that will maximize the eﬃciency of their stop at Hayward Park Sta:on 
•  The trickle-down eﬀect of commuters stopping at Hayward Park Sta:on will beneﬁt the 
en:re neighborhood 
•  Star:ng at 5pm every weekday, all sessions will be adult-exclusive or adult-inclusive, making 
California Ninja Academy an ideal stop on a commuter’s ride home 
•  California Ninja Academy will subsidize monthly transit passes for full-:me employees who 
commute to work 
 
Most ninja warrior facili:es in the US are located in car-centric suburbs. California Ninja Academy will 
be similar to NY Ninja Academy in Manhadan on W 55th, whose members access it via the nearby 
M11 bus or the 59th St / Columbus Circle subway sta:on. Or Shins Ninjas on Long Island, which is just 
a couple blocks from the Nassau Blvd sta:on on the Long Island Rail Road. The owners of both 
facili:es have told me they rely heavily on commuter traﬃc for membership. Boston and Chicago are 
also home ninja warrior facili:es strategically located close to sta:ons on the T (Boston) or L (Chicago) 
trains. 
6

--- page 91 ---
Fitness Studio Opera:onal Model 
California Ninja Academy will have a daily schedule of instruc:onal classes led by 
trained instructors. The en:re workout ﬂoor will be dedicated to these classes. 
Think of a mar:al arts dojo or a yoga studio or a dance studio as analogous 
comparisons. 
Ø  By contrast, a tradi:onal gym like 24-Hour Fitness or Crunch Fitness hosts classes in small ancillary 
rooms oﬀ the main ﬂoor. The main ﬂoor of the gym is dedicated to drop-in individual workouts. 
California Ninja Academy’s classes not compete with any “open gym” :mes. All classes, and even 
open gym, will require signups for limited spaces. 
 
Adult Beginner Classes 
Pro Classes 
7

--- page 92 ---
Fitness Studio Opera:onal Model 
Ninja warrior training is centered around community, similar to the communi:es 
you would ﬁnd at a neighborhood yoga studio or a mar:al arts dojo. Ninja athletes 
prefer to train with other ninja athletes in a group environment that lijs up 
everybody, similar to dancers, yogi’s or mar:al ar:sts. 
 
Ø By contrast, members at a tradi:onal gym typically use it for a solo workout without regard to 
when other members of the gym want to work out. One member’s workout :me is not dependent 
on that of any other member. 
 
There will indeed be :mes when the gym is “open” for unstructured training. But 
even those will be similar to a dance workshop sekng where athletes connect and 
share techniques and :ps with other athletes there at the :me. 
 
8

--- page 93 ---
Opera:ng Hours 
9 
Sun 
Mon 
Tues 
Wed 
Thur 
Fri 
Sat 
10a 
B’day Party 
B’day Party 
10a 
11a 
Junior Gym 
Junior Gym 
Junior Gym 
Junior Gym 
Junior Gym 
11a 
Noon 
B’day Party 
B’day Party 
Noon 
1p 
Home  
School PE 
Home  
School PE 
Home  
School PE 
Home  
School PE 
Home  
School PE 
1p 
2p 
B’day Party 
Neighborhood 
Hour 
Neighborhood 
Hour 
Neighborhood 
Hour 
Neighborhood 
Hour 
Neighborhood 
Hour 
B’day Party 
2p 
3p 
Open Gym 
Open Gym 
Open Gym 
Open Gym 
Open Gym 
3p 
4p 
Adult Open 
Youth Classes 
Youth Classes 
Youth Classes 
Youth Classes 
Youth Classes 
Adult Open 
4p 
5p 
Open Gym 
Open Gym 
Open Gym 
Open Gym 
Open Gym 
5p 
6p 
Adult Open 
Pro Classes 
Compe::on 
Pro Classes 
Adult 
Compe::on 
6p 
7p 
Teams 
Beginners 
Teams 
7p 
8p 
8p 
Birthday Par:es  – two hour :me slots allow one party to clear out before next party starts, minimizing traﬃc 
Junior Gym
 – pre-school age only; limited to 10 signup slots (+ guardians)  
Home School PE  – PhysEd classes for home school students; limited to 10 signup slots; 50-minute class 
Open Gym
 – gym open to anyone but limited to 10 signup slots for 3pm slot; limited to 20 for 5pm slot; 50-minute sessions 
Adult Open Gym  – gym open to adults only and limited to 20 signup slots; 50-minute sessions 
Adult Beginners  – instructor-based for adults who want to try ninja warrior without being overwhelmed by kids or pros; 50-minute sessions 
Pro Classes 
 – instructor-based and open to compe::on-level only; limited to 20 signup slots;  
Compe::on Teams – no min. age but limited to athletes training at compe::on level; focused on racing vs. instruc:on 
Neighborhood
 – discounted and reserved :me slots for neighborhood residents; 50-minute sessions; see map on page 5 
Youth Classes 
 – instructor led classes and limited to 14 years old and under; 50-minute classes

--- page 94 ---
Weekday Mornings 
Junior Gym:
 
 Facility reserved for kids 6 and under, along with their care giver. 
 
 
 Access limited to easiest obstacles but no danger of being run over by an older kid or adult. 
 
 
 Care givers have access to party area tables and chairs. 
 
 
 Staﬀ (not necessarily ninja warrior instructors) will give basic guidance to using apparatus but focus 
 
 
 primarily on safety (eg. making sure only one person on an obstacle at a :me). 
 
Home School PE:
 Structured PhysEd classes for home schooled kids of elementary and middle school age. 
 
 
 Access to obstacles will be based on ability so younger kids won’t be using the same obstacles as 
 
 
 older kids. 
 
Neighborhood Hour:  Discount oﬀered to Hayward Park residents within a 10-15 minute walking distance. 
 
 
 “Locals” area more or less deﬁned by ECR to the west, 21st Ave / Saratoga Drive to the south, South 
 
 
 Amphled to the east and 10th Ave to the north. 
 
 
 Financial incen:ve for locals who work from home or the evening shij to walk to California Ninja 
 
 
 Academy when it’s less crowded. 
 
 
10

--- page 95 ---
Weekday Ajernoons 
Open Gym:
 
 Transi:onal hours from Neighborhood Hour to Youth Classes and from Youth Classes to Adult Open. 
 
 
 Open to all ages but access to obstacles based on ability and tes:ng into most diﬃcult obstacles. 
 
 
 Qualiﬁed instructors available to provide instruc:on but will be “bouncing” from one athlete to  
 
 
 another and one obstacle to another, not dedicated to a speciﬁc group of athletes. 
 
 
 Limited to 10 athletes; signups required ahead of :me. 
 
 
 50-minute sessions 
 
 
  
Youth Classes: 
 Structured 50-minute classes led by qualiﬁed instructors for athletes 14 years old and younger. 
 
 
 Access to obstacles based on selec:ons by instructors. 
 
 
 Limited to 10 athletes; signups required ahead of :me. 
 
 
  
Adult Open:
 
 Limited to adults; no kids gekng in their way. 
 
 
 Qualiﬁed instructors available to provide instruc:on but will be “bouncing” from one athlete to  
 
 
 another and one obstacle to another, not dedicated to a speciﬁc group of athletes. 
 
 
 Limited to 10 athletes; signups required ahead of :me. 
 
 
 50-minute sessions 
 
 
11

--- page 96 ---
Weekday Evenings 
Pro Classes:
 
 No minimum age but limited to high level athletes who are training for compe::on. 
 
 
 Led by instructors and limited to 10 qualiﬁed athletes who signup ahead of :me. 
 
Compe::on Teams:  Athletes who have been training for compe::on have access to compe::on-level courses that 
 
 
 will change from week to week. 
 
 
 A “course” is simply a speciﬁc path through designated obstacles with a clock running and penal:es 
 
 
 assessed. Courses change from week to week. 
  
Adult Beginners:
 Instructor-led classes for any adults who would like to try ninja warrior in an environment where 
 
 
 more experienced athletes won’t be judging them or “hogging” the obstacles. 
 
 
 Limited to 10 athletes who signup ahead of :me. 
 
 
 50-minute classes 
 
12

--- page 97 ---
Weekends 
Birthday Par:es:
 Facility reserved for one birthday party at a :me. 
 
 
 Birthday par:es limited to 20 guests. 
 
 
 Two “hosts” (not necessarily ninja warrior instructors) will give basic guidance to using apparatus 
 
 
 but focus primarily on safety (eg. making sure only one person on an obstacle at a :me). 
 
 
 One qualiﬁed instructor will be available and providing instruc:on similar to that of Open Gym, i.e. 
 
 
 going from guest to guest and obstacle to obstacle. 
 
 
 Party slots are oﬃcially two hours but that includes clean up and departure. Hosts will start moving 
 
 
 guests oﬀ the obstacles at the 1:45 mark as guests for the following party begin to arrive. 
 
 
 Arriving guests will gather in lobby area, ensuring waivers are signed and wai:ng for their party to 
 
 
 begin. 
 
Adult Open and  
Compe::on Teams: Ajer birthday par:es are completed for the day, adults athletes will have an opportunity to 
 
 
 use the ninja gym without kids running around. Compe::on Teams will include non-adults 
 
 
 but they will all be high-level ninja athletes and considered peers by adult athletes. 
 
 
  
 
 
13

--- page 98 ---
Guest Capacity 
Sun 
Mon 
Tues 
Wed 
Thur 
Fri 
Sat 
10a 
20 kids + 
parents 
20 kids + 
parents 
10a 
11a 
10 kids + 
guardians 
10 kids + 
guardians 
10 kids + 
guardians 
10 kids + 
guardians 
 
10 kids + 
guardians 
11a 
Noon 
20 kids + 
parents 
20 kids + 
parents 
Noon 
1p 
10 students + 
guardian 
10 students + 
guardian 
10 students + 
guardian 
10 students + 
guardian 
10 students + 
guardian 
1p 
2p 
20 kids + 
parents 
10 locals of all 
ages 
10 locals of all 
ages 
10 locals of all 
ages 
10 locals of all 
ages 
10 locals of all 
ages 
20 kids + 
parents 
2p 
3p 
10 athletes 
10 athletes 
10 athletes 
10 athletes 
10 athletes 
3p 
4p 
20 athletes 
10 athletes 
10 athletes 
10 athletes 
10 athletes 
10 athletes 
20 athletes 
4p 
5p 
20 athletes 
20 athletes 
20 athletes 
20 athletes 
20 athletes 
5p 
6p 
20 athletes 
20 athletes 
20 athletes 
20 athletes 
20 athletes 
20 athletes 
6p 
7p 
7p 
8p 
8p 
14 
*Weekday sessions will end at the :50 minute mark of the hour so one class can clear out before the other begins

--- page 99 ---
Staﬃng 
Sun 
Mon 
Tues 
Wed 
Thur 
Fri 
Sat 
10a 
3 hosts +  
1 instructor 
3 hosts +  
1 instructor 
10a 
11a 
1 host 
1 host 
1 host 
1 host 
1 host 
11a 
Noon 
Noon 
1p 
1 instructor 
1 instructor 
1 instructor 
1 instructor 
1 instructor 
1p 
2p 
1 instructor 
1 instructor 
1 instructor 
1 instructor 
1 instructor 
2p 
3p 
1 instructor 
1 instructor 
1 instructor 
1 instructor 
1 instructor 
3p 
4p 
2 
instructors 
1 host + 3 
instructors 
1 host + 3 
instructors 
1 host + 3 
instructors 
1 host + 3 
instructors 
1 host + 3 
instructors 
2 instructors 
4p 
5p 
2 instructors 
2 instructors 
2 instructors 
2 instructors 
2 instructors 
5p 
6p 
2 instructors 
3 instructors 
3 instructors 
3 instructors 
2 instructors 
3 instructors 
6p 
7p 
7p 
8p 
8p 
Host = Part-:me; checks in guests, conveys rules of the gym, etc. Many would be local high school students who can walk/ride to work. 
Instructor = Part-:me; trained as a ninja warrior instructor to provide instruc:on on technique and strategy.  
15

--- page 100 ---
Parking 
From A0.1 of submi>ed architect drawings 
Site: 
44 Regular Parking Spaces 
2 ADA Parking Spaces 
 
California Ninja Academy: 
12 parking spaces assigned 24/7 
 
40 parking spaces on weekends 
and holidays 
17th Street 
Leslie Street 
Suite 100 
26

--- page 101 ---
KIRKPATRICKS SCHOOL OF DANCE CLASS SCHEDULE 2018-19 
PRE-DANCE 
TINY DANCER 
 
Tues. 
2:30-3:15 
 
Thurs. 11:00-11:45 
Sat.  
9:30-10:15                          
 
LITTLE STARS 
Wed. 
3:30-4:30 
 
Sat. 
10:30-11:30 
 
SUPER STARS  
 
 
Thurs.  10:00-11:00 
Thurs. 2:30-3:30 
 
KINDERDANCE 
Tues. 
3:30-4:30 
Thurs. 3:30-4:30 
Sat. 
9:30-10:30 
 
COMBO GP 
Tues. 
3:30-4:30 
 
 
 
COMBO  
Fri. 
3:30-4:30 
 
Sat. 
10:30-11:30 
 
CONCENTRATED CLASSES 
TAP 
TAP NEW (7-12 years old) 
Fri. 
4:30-5:30 
 
TAP INTRO 
 
Wed. 
5:30-6:30 
Sat. 
9:30-10:30 
 
TAP 1 
Mon. 
3:30-4:30 
Wed. 
3:30-4:30 
Sat. 
9:30-10:30 
 
TAP 2 
Mon. 
4:30-5:30 
 
TAP 3 
Mon. 
5:30-6:30 
 
 
TAP 4 
Wed. 
4:30-5:30 
 
TAP 5 
Thurs. 4:30-5:30 
 
TAP 6/7 
Tues. 
4:30-5:30 
 
TAP INTERMEDIATE 
Thurs. 4:30-5:30 
 
TAP ADVANCED 
Wed.  5:30-6:30 
 
BALLET 
BALLET NEW 
Fri. 
3:30-4:30 
 
BALLET INTRO 
Mon. 
3:30-4:30 
Wed. 
3:30-4:30 
Sat. 
10:30-11:30 
 
BALLET 1 
Mon. 
4:30-5:30 
Wed.  4:30-5:30 
Sat. 
10:30-11:30 
 
BALLET 2 (both classes required) 
Mon. 
3:30-4:30 
Wed. 
3:30-4:30 
 
BALLET 2 
Sat. 11:30-1:00 
 
BALLET 3 (both classes required) 
Mon. 
4:30-5:30 
Wed. 
4:30-5:30 
 
BALLET 3 (both classes required) 
Tues. 
4:30-5:30 
Thurs. 4:30-5:30 
 
BALLET 4 (both classes required) 
Tues. 
4:00-5:30 
Thurs. 4:00-5:30 
 
BALLET 4/5 (both classes required) 
Mon. 
6:30-8:00 
Wed. 
6:30-8:00 
 
 
BALLET 5/6 (both classes required) 
Tues. 
5:30-7:00 
Thurs. 5:30-7:00 
 
BALLET INTERMEDIATE 
(Modern class required) 
Tues. 
5:30-7:00 
Thurs. 5:30-7:00 
 
BALLET ADVANCED  
(Modern class required) 
Tues. 
7:00-8:30 
Thurs. 7:00-8:30 
 
BALLET TEEN  
Thurs. 5:30-6:30 
 
MODERN BEGINNING  
Tues. 
4:00-5:30 
 
MODERN INTERMEDIATE  
Mon. 
5:30-7:00 
 
MODERN ADVANCED 
Wed. 
6:30-8:00 
JAZZ 
JAZZ NEW 
Fri. 
5:30-6:30 
 
JAZZ INTRO 
Mon. 
4:30-5:30 
Wed. 
4:30-5:30 
Sat. 
11:30-12:30 
 
JAZZ 1 
Mon. 
5:30-6:30 
Thurs. 3:30-4:30 
 
JAZZ 2 
Mon. 
5:30-6:30 
Thurs. 5:30-6:30 
 
JAZZ 3 
Mon. 
3:30-4:30 
Wed. 
5:30-6:30 
 
JAZZ 4 
Tues. 
5:30-6:30 
 
JAZZ 5 
Wed. 
5:30-6:30 
 
JAZZ 5/6 
Tues. 
7:00-8:30 
 
JAZZ INTERMEDIATE 
Wed. 
6:30-8:00 
 
JAZZ ADVANCED 
Mon. 
7:00-8:30 
 
JAZZ TEEN  
Thurs. 6:30-7:30 
 
HIP HOP 
HIP HOP NEW 
Fri. 
4:30-5:30 
 
HIP HOP INTRO 
Fri. 
3:30-4:30 
 
HIP HOP 2 
Mon. 
6:30-7:30 
 
HIP HOP 3/4 
Mon. 
7:30-8:30 
 
HIP HOP ADVANCED 
Thurs. 6:30-7:30 
 
HIP HOP TEEN 
Tues. 
6:30-7:30

--- page 102 ---
KIRKPATRICK’S SCHOOL OF DANCE 
 
CLASS DESCRIPTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR AGES 3 and up 
Tiny Dancer 
Tiny Dancer is a specially designed class for 3 year olds.  Each 45 minute class is divided into short segments to 
accommodate the concentration span of children this age.  Children will learn the essential skills they need to 
participate in our more structured ‘Stars’ dance classes.  Students will experience creative and rhythmic 
movement as well as pre-ballet, tap and mat work.  Class size is limited to 12 students and is taught by a dance 
instructor and teacher assistant.  Children must be potty trained and 3 years of age by the first class of the 
dance season to register. 
 
Little Stars 
Little Stars is for 4 and 5 year old children new to dance.  Each one hour class consists of 20 minutes each of 
ballet, tap, and mat work to accommodate the concentration span of children this age.  Class size is limited to 12 
students and is taught by a dance instructor and teacher assistant.  Children must be potty trained and 4 years 
of age by the first class of the dance season to register. 
 
Super Stars 
Super Stars is for 4 and 5 year old children that have completed Tiny Dancer.  Each one hour class consists of 20 
minutes each of ballet, tap, and mat work to accommodate the concentration span of children this age.  Class size 
is limited to 12 students and is taught by a dance instructor and teacher assistant.  ** Completion of Tiny Dancer 
is required to enroll in this class. 
 
Kinderdance 
Kinderdance is for 5 and 6 year old children that are enrolled in Kindergarten and have completed one of our 
‘Stars’ classes.  Each one hour class consists of 20 minutes each of ballet, tap, and mat work to accommodate the 
concentration span of children this age.  Class size is limited to 12 students and is taught by a dance instructor and 
teacher assistant.  ** Completion of Little Stars or Super Stars is required to enroll in this class. 
 
Combo 
Combo is for 6 and 7 year old children that are entering first grade.  Each one hour class consists of 30 minutes 
each of ballet and tap.  Students learn the fundamentals needed to continue into the concentrated levels of dance the 
following season.  Class size is limited to 12 students and is taught by a dance instructor and teacher assistant.  Children 
must be 6 years of age by the first class to register.   
** COMBO - Open to New students and/or students that have completed a ‘Stars’ class. 
** COMBO GP – Completion of Kinderdance is required to enroll in this class.  
 
CONCENTRATED CLASSES 
Intro 
The Introduction classes are for 7 & 8 year olds who have completed our combo program and want to take more 
dance classes per week.  We offer one hour specialized classes enabling students to excel in Ballet, Tap, Jazz or 
Hip Hop.  The Introduction classes incorporate strong technical foundations, as well as fun dance combinations.  
We strongly recommend students who enroll in Jazz or Hip Hop also continue with Ballet and Tap for a good 
technical background in dance.  ** Completion of Combo is required to enroll in this class. 
 
New 
The New classes are for 7 – 12 year olds new to dance, who want to take more dance classes per week.  We offer 
one hour specialized classes enabling students to excel in Ballet, Tap, Jazz or Hip Hop.  The New classes 
incorporate strong technical foundations, as well as fun dance combinations.  We strongly recommend students 
who enroll in Jazz or Hip Hop also enroll in Ballet and Tap for a good technical background in dance. 
** Student must be in Second Grade or higher to enroll in this class. 
Teen 
The Teen classes are similar to the New classes, but are structured for ages 12 and up. 
** Student must be in Seventh Grade or higher to enroll in this class.

--- page 103 ---
\Ol.dwg 6-17-03 2:23:24 pm

Fi

TOILET FIXTURE ANALYSIS

PARKING ANALYSIS

PARKING USE FLOOR AREA MIN. STALL REQ./ SF REQ’D PARKING OCCUPANCY A-3 AND B
: CAS Architects, Inc.
IBEW 10.86 GROSS BUILDING FLOOR AREA 7,570 S.F. 1023 Shoreline Boulevard
GENERAL OFFICE 1,983 335 5.92 B AREA 4,620 S.F. Mount 6600. 94043
BUSINESS MANAGER 258 335 0.77 STORAGE . —257 S.F. Fax 650.967.6616
AGENT A 284 335 0.85 CORE AREAS/CIRCULATION —2,693 S.F. ax boV.v0
AGENT B 285 335 0.85 a ANTHONY F. MATISI, ALA.
ORGANIZER 283 335 0.84 :
BOOK KEEPER 259 335 0.77 TOTAL NET AREA: 1,670 S.F. :
DISPATCH 285 335 0.85 —__
qa SSS TSS Se SSSSSpaS= ooleiade earl i IBEW (NOT COUNTED PER SECTION 27.04.2000 SAN MATEO CITY CODE OCCUPANT LOAD (PER CBC TABLE 4—1)
BOARD ROOM 634 :
WORK—OUT AREA 163 4
RESTROOMS 792 B OCCUPANCY: 4,620 S.F./200 S.F./OCCUPANT =
BREAK AREA & BREAK ROOMS 228
WAITING ROOM/ LIBRARY 257 TOTAL OCCUPANT LOAD FOR FIXTURE ANALYSIS: 23 OCC.
| STORAGE AREA 1,935
. KITCHEN 651 OCCUPANT LOAD — MEN: 11 OCC.
STUDIO A STUDIO |B TUDIO C H LOBBY 1,716
1,615 SF/50 sas SF./5 a99 SF./50 : LOADING AREA 351 OCCUPANT LOAD — WOMEN: 42. OCC. ; _

u MEZZANINE STORAGE 2,019 :

| 48 | 18 14 CORRIDOR 313 TOTAL PLUMBING FIXTURES REQUIRED (PER CBC TABLE 4—1 w REV. BY DESCRIPTION DATE

: TOTAL PLUMBING FIXTURES REQUIRED (PER CBC TABLE 4-1)

z : ;
| ‘lo14 DANCE STUDIO 18.77 8 en |_| Aw | PROGRESS PRINT 05/16/05 §
a nie © STUDIO B 900 250 3.60 a, | [UU

151 S.F./300 —— (6 apes 603 SF./50 STUDIO O 900 250 5.60 LAVATORIES: |
zt i STUDIO D DANCE STUDIO (NOT COUNTED PER SECTION 27.04.2000 SAN MATEO CITY CODE) WATER CLOSETS: eee
i ose LOBBY AND WAITING 1,823 LAVATORIES: ‘ee eee
: LOCKER RO 196 TOTAL PLUMBING FIXTURES PROVIDED es ee eee
ty LOCKER ROOM 196 TOTAL PLUMBING FIXTURES PROVIDED :
Bi SECONDARY ENTRY LOBBY (NOT COUNTED PER SECTION 27.04.2000 SAN MATEO CITY CODE)
| | i WATER CLOSETS: 2>1 LEGEND
[ CORRIDOR 334 URINALS! | 2>0
“ih LAVATORIES: 2>1 (1) HOUR RATED EXIT
: CORRIDOR
= FUTURE OFFICE SPACE 9.55 WOMEN:
FUTURE OFFICE #1 1,200 335 3.58 WATER CLOSETS: 471 POINT OF ACCESSIBLE
FUTURE OFFICE #2 2,000 335 5.97 LAVATORIES: EGRESS

OCCUPANT LOAD AND
DIRECTION OF TRAVEL

TOTAL PARKING PROVIDED

ee eee

\

ye rc
t

i cr STD CAR 44
Lb LOADING 2
EXIT SIGNAGE
ASSEMBLY:_DISPATCH(7:30_TO_8:30) AND UNION MEETINGS (7:00PM TO 10:00PM ONCE A MONTH)
-—-—-——- ACCESSIBLE PATH
MEETING HALL 3,695 70 52.79 OF TRAVEL

PROPERTY LINE

NOTE: ASSEMBLY PARKING NOT COUNTED IN REQUIRED DAY TIME PARKING PER CITY AGREEMENT.

aoe noneery

: : “ie RECESSED FIRE EXTINGUISHER
“| ai I mene
; EXIT WIDTH ANALYSIS (PER CBC SECTION 1003.2) EXITING PLAN NOTES SURFACE MOUNTED FIRE
zi __ Nee ell EXTINGUISHER NLLC.
—& x, SUPPLIED BY OWNER.

OCCUPANCY B

1. EXIT DOORS SHALL BE OPENABLE FROM THE INSIDE WITHOUT THE
USE OF A KEY OR ANY SPECIAL KNOWLEDGE OR EFFORT.

GROSS BUILDING FLOOR AREA

2. EXIT DOORS SHALL SWING IN THE DIRECTION OF EXIT TRAVEL WHEN
SERVING ANY HAZARDOUS AREA OR WHEN THE AREA SERVED HAS
AN OCCUPANT LOAD OF 50 OR MORE.

FIRST FLOOR: 7,570 S.F.

OCCUPANT LOAD (UBC TABLE 10-A)
B OCCUPANCY:

3. REPAIR OR REPLACE ANY DAMAGED OR MISSING EXITING HARDWARE
ON EXISTING SHELL EXIT DOORS. -

eee etna eeyeineerie eit etme, Ne

REPAIR OR REPLACE ANY MISSING EXITING SIGNAGE.

GENERAL OFFICE @ 100 S.F./OCCUPANT = 451 S.F./100 =

STUDIOS @ 50 S.F./OCCUPANT = = 4,015 S.F./20 = 80 OCC.
MINOR ACCESSORY BREAK RM. @ 154 S.F./OCCUPANT =

SF./15 = 10 OCC.
CORE AREAS @ 0 S.F./OCCUPANT = 2,693 S.F./O = . 0 OCC.

1 OCC.

STORAGE @ 300 S.F./OCCUPANT = 257 S.F./300

TOTAL B OCCUPANT LOAD:

TOTAL OCCUPANTS:

EXITING PLAN REMARKS

|

G) REMOVE <E> HANDRAIL. PATCH AND REPAIR STAIR TO MATCH EXISTING.

EXIT WIDTH (1003.2)

PROVIDE NEW H.C. COMPLIANT WALL MOUNTED HAND RAIL TO MATCH <E>.
FIRST FLOOR: 95 OCCUPANTS X 0.2 = 19”/2 EXITS= 9.5” .

PROVIDE NO PARKING LETERING.

MINIMUM DOOR WIDTH REQUIRED: 9.5”

MINIMUM CLEAR DOOR WIDTH PROVIDED: 34” ACCESSIBLE PATH OF TRAVEL.

AREA OCCUPIED BY ANOTHER TENANT.

OOo

TENANT IMPROVEMENTS FOR:

KIRKPATRICK’S
SCHOOL OF DANCE

1701 LESLIE STREET, SUITE 100
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 94402

EXITING AND SITE PLAN

1/16"=1'-0"

BUILDING OWNER:
H.C. SIGN ;
17-5”

MIN.
MATERIALS:

REFLECTORIZED PAINT OF

PREMANUFACTURED SIGN
PORCELAIN ON METAL.

TO COMPLY W/ THE
MANUAL OF UNIFORM UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLES NOT DIS-

TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES COLORS:
6 STANDARD NO. R7—8, MIN. BOA NST INSUED FOR WHITE LETTERS ON BLUE
z 2” WIDE BLUE LINES EQUAL PARKING SIZE 70 SQ. IN. CR VSICALLY HANDICAPPED PERSONS BACKGROUND EQUAL TO
a. TO COLOR NO. 15090 IN MAY BE TOWED AWAY AT OWNER’S NO. 15090, FEDERAL WHEEL STOP
oe FEDERAL STD. 595A, TYP. ONLY PROVIDE VAN ACCESSIBLE AXPENSE IF PARKED IN SPACES STD. 595
n SONS @ VAN STALL MARKED FOR HANDICAPPED. TOWED OPTION: ERODING Wee STALL
2 VEHICLES MAY BE RECLAIMED AT SUBSTITUTE COMMERCIAL IPING, TYP. c ane |
x WHITE BACKGROUND, TYP. OR BY TELEPHONING SIGN COMPLYING WITH 24 PAINT ON GROUND 4 PE | .
6 SUPPORT STANDARD 3” . CAC SECTION 2-7102 "NO PARKING” IN WHITE con ‘a ; 9
a. DIA. GALV. STEEL POLE/ LETTERS NO LESS THAN Pr Yt 0 4701 LESLIE STREET
2 peopaeegee
La ATTACH SIGN TO POLE SUPPORT. 12” HIGH AT LOADING WE pasa = SAN MATEO, CA
° w/ GALV. STRAPS AT TOP STANDARD 3” DIA. GALV. AISLE AS SHOWN, TYP.
2 & BOTTOM. STEEL POLE WITH 2’-0” SHEET TITLE:
fai OPTION: IMBEDMENT ATTACH SIGN <
= USE COMMERCIALLY © TO POLE W/ GALV. STRAPS —
E AVAILABLE STENCIL zo :
= “APPROX. THESE CRITERIA. ES Og SITE/EXITING
Zz HEIGHT WHEN LOCATED IN ae)
S PATH OF TRAVEL aa < | ag PLAN & DETAILS
ee 1 We in
< OPTION: 7 = a cad 2
PAINT FIGURE IN WHITE 1’'-0"(4 x DIAMETER OF ons [fA - te
LINE ON 3'x3) BLUE POST) bio 8 | opt asec ty be
NOTE: tt “7 7 | =
FOR ACCESSIBILITY SIGNAGE Hoa 9 ADS fj SHEET

__ AT HC PARKING STALLS .

4’-0"(4 x DIAMETER OF - a)

POST) SEE CO be eet ec be |

~ SPACE
2 ” a
HANDICAPPED PARKING SIGNS @ HANDICAPPED PARKING SIGN PAVING DETAIL o-9
eTArre@ (EAR RFF ONI VY) 1/210" (FOR REF. ONLY) 1-41/2=1-0 (FOR REFERENCE ONLY) 1/rmt'—0"

2003_044 § OF SHEETS :


--- page 104 ---
High Quality Transit Area Map

Caltrain Stations

ES ee ep
High-Quality Transit Area | |
1 i
atm
i_ _j City Boundary
1 I
I |
Pas '
% i
ba |
rd !
¢ I
I
I
I
I
I
I
1

(32020

ate: 7

fa}

4441

as ore within ) 3,900 Feet
najor transit r i

stop along a high-

dor

High-quality transit

quality transit co

‘KITTELSON

° High-Quality Transit Areas
i & ASSOCIATES

City of San Mateo, CA



--- page 105 ---
VMT per Employee Map

Average VMT/ Employee by TAZ

< 15.3 - Below Target VMT (County
Average - 15%)

4
2 15.3 - 18.0 - Target VMT (County Average-
&

15%) to County Average
> 18.0 - Above County Average

No Data

|
i
-

City Boundary

I"
Le

High Quality Transit Area

4
=_J

1
l

Priority Development Area
Pees

HAN 24, 24441 City of San Mateo Tonsportation On-GSINGS TAT employees. Scroening.mxd Bote: 7/13/2020

fa 3,900Feet #)
er

Average VMT per Employee by TAZ

4 VMT per Employee Labeled
M enescenies City of San Mateo, CA


--- page 106 ---
VMT per Employee Map, TAZ labeled

Average VMT/ Employee by TAZ
< 15.3 - Below Target VMT (County
Average - 15%)

15.3 - 18.0 - Target VMT (County
Average- 15%) to County Average

> 18.0 - Above County Average

No Data

!
-

City Boundary

High Quality Transit Area

7
L

q
J

|
hin

Priority Development Area

HA24\ 24441 -Ciry of San Mateo Tansportation On-CaiNGS WAZ employees Screening Labeled:mxd. Diste: 7/13/2020

fa 3,900Feet #)
er

Average VMT per Employee by TAZ
v A TAZ Number Labeled
eS ciaves City of San Mateo, CA


--- page 107 ---
1701 Leslie St. 
California Ninja Academy
New Commercial Recreation Use 
(PA-2021-058)
Planning Commission Public Hearing
June 28, 2022
Somer Smith, AICP, Associate Planner
Community Development Department

--- page 108 ---
1701 Leslie St. 
California Ninja Academy
New Commercial Recreation Use 
(PA-2021-058)
Planning Commission Public Hearing
June 28, 2022
Somer Smith, AICP, Associate Planner
Community Development Department

--- page 109 ---
3
Hayward Park 
Caltrain Station
Project Site
PROJECT SITE
• 1 Parcel (1.02 Acres)
• 17th Ave. & Leslie St. 
• Transit Oriented Development 
(TOD) Rail Corridor Plan
• Hayward Park Station Overlay 
• General Plan Land Use – TOD
• Zoning District – TOD

--- page 110 ---
4
PROJECT SITE
• Existing Commercial Building
• 2 Tenant Spaces
• IBEW Local Union 67 offices
• Proposed Ninja Academy
• Parking Lot with 46 Spaces

--- page 111 ---
5
PROJECT 
DESCRIPTION
• Commercial Recreation Use
• Physical fitness, games, and 
obstacles
• Variety of classes and activities

--- page 112 ---
6
PROJECT 
DESCRIPTION
• 11am-8pm Monday-Friday
• 10am-8pm Saturday-Sunday
AVAILABILITY 
NINJA 
ACADEMY
IBEW 
OFFICES
Weekdays before 
5pm
22 spaces
24 spaces
Weekdays after 
5pm, Weekends, & 
Holidays
42 spaces
4 spaces
• No exterior changes 
• Shared Parking
• Interior improvements

--- page 113 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
•
General Plan and Zoning Code
•
Local Plans
•
Entitlements
7

--- page 114 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
•
General Plan and Zoning Code
•
Local Plans
•
Entitlements
8
• General Plan Land Use – TOD
• Transit-supportive, Convenience-oriented uses
• Zoning District – TOD
• The Rail Corridor Plan specifies all zoning regulations

--- page 115 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
•
General Plan and Zoning Code
•
Local Plans
•
Entitlements
9
• Rail Corridor Plan (2005)
• Hayward Park Station TOD Overlay 
• No specific list of permitted uses. Provides Use Categories 
• Transit-Supportive Uses
• Convenience/Commuter-Oriented Uses
• Specialty Uses
• All projects require transportation analysis and parking 
study.
Project Site

--- page 116 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
•
General Plan and Zoning Code
•
Local Plans
•
Entitlements
10
• Special Use Permit (SUP)
• To allow a commercial recreation use to occupy an 
existing building in the Transit-Oriented Development 
(TOD) zone.
• Parking Variance
• To allow the same off-street parking facilities to satisfy 
required parking for the existing office use and the 
proposed commercial recreation use

--- page 117 ---
• Special Use Permit (SUP)
• Planning Commission may grant SUPs for non-designated 
uses in the TOD if:
• The use is “so similar to any specifically permitted use so as 
to be virtually identical thereto in terms of impact and land 
use requirements”
• Neighborhood and Commuter Serving Uses and Services 
are permitted, including Specialty Uses
• Ninja Academy as neighborhood and commuter-serving 
specialty use
• Neighborhood hour 
• Staff recruited from the Hayward Park neighborhood
• Marketing to commuters to integrate exercise before or after 
work
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
•
General Plan and Zoning Code
•
Local Plans
•
Entitlements
11

--- page 118 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
•
General Plan and Zoning Code
•
Local Plans
•
Entitlements
12
• Parking Variance
• Rail Corridor Plan parking policies and standards.
• Policy Q encourages shared parking
• Required transportation analysis and a parking demand study
• Traffic and Parking Statement Memo (Kittelson & 
Associates, June 2022)
• Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) – No impact
• Transportation Demand Management (TDM) measures 
exceed 25% trip reduction goal.
• Maximum capacity of facility 
• Parking ratio for future expansion
Availability 
Ninja Academy
Capacity 
(staff + patrons)
Weekdays before 
5pm
22 spaces
14 occupants
Weekdays after 
5pm, Weekends, 
and Holidays
42 spaces
27 occupants
0.67 x # of parking spaces = Hourly class and staff person-capacity

--- page 119 ---
RECOMMENDATION 
13
• Recommend adoption of a Resolution to approve a Special Use Permit and Parking 
Variance to allow a commercial recreation use to occupy an existing building in the TOD 
zone and allow shared parking facilities located at 1701 Leslie Street and, 
• Recommend a determination of Categorical Exemption for the project based on the 
Findings for Approval.

--- page 120 ---
Thank You
Somer Smith, AICP, Associate Planner
Community Development Department
ssmith@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7214
14

--- page 121 ---
15
17th Street
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
1
0
1
1
1
2
1
3
1
4
1
5
1
6
1
7
1
8
3
2
3
1
3
0
2
9
2
8
2
7
2
6
2
5
2
4
2
3
2
2
2
1
2
0
1
9
3
3
3
4
3
5
3
8
3
6
3
7
3
9
4
0
4
1
4
2
4
3
4
4
1
A
2
A
Leslie Street
20 spaces dedicated 24/7
2 ADA spaces 
+20 spaces when office closed
PROJECT 
DESCRIPTION
• 22 spaces 24/7
• +20 spaces when office is 
closed
• Weekdays after 5pm
• Weekends
• Holidays
• Signage showing availability of stalls

--- page 122 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
•
General Plan and Zoning Code
•
Local Plans
•
Entitlements
16
• Rail Coordior Plan
• Central Claremont Sub-Area
• Transportation Analysis and Parking Demand 
Study.
• Class schedule and shared parking agreement used to determine 
the trip generation threshold and maximum capacity for the 
facility
• Guides the creation of appropriate trip reduction measures to 
achieve overall reduction in trips by 25% corridor-wide.
• Transportation Analysis and Parking Demand Study required for all 
projects.
Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA)
Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT): No Impact
Meets Screening Criteria for projects in a 
High‐Quality Transit Area (HQTA) 
Level of Service (LOS): No adverse effects
Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan
Subsidized transit passes for office uses
Unbundled residential parking
O
it TDM C
di
t

--- page 123 ---
PROJECT SITE
• 1 Parcel (1.02 Acres)
• 17th Ave. & Leslie St. 
• General Plan Land Use –
Transit Oriented Development 
(TOD)
• Zoning District – TOD
17
PROJECT SITE
Hayward Caltrain Station

--- page 124 ---
CITY OF



--- page 125 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
•
General Plan and Zoning Code
•
Local Plans
•
Entitlements
19
• Rail Corridor Plan
• Ninja Academy as Specialty Use
• Unique nature of activities 
• Functions like a neighborhood and 
commuter-serving business
• Neighborhood-serving
• discounted neighborhood hour on weekdays
• recruiting staff from the Hayward Park 
neighborhood
• Commuter-serving 
• marketing to commuters as a convenient way 
to integrate exercise before or after 
commuting
• Caltrain passes for employees who commute

--- page 126 ---
17" Street

Leslie Street

[[] 20 spaces dedicated 24/7 [_] 2ADAspaces [_] +20 spaces when office closed

—— CITY OF



--- page 127 ---
21
• Ninja Academy Shared Parking
• 22 spaces 24/7, including 2 ADA 
stalls
• +20 spaces when office is closed
• Weekdays after 5pm
• Weekends
• Holidays
• Signage showing availability of stalls
17th Street
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
1
0
1
1
1
2
1
3
1
4
1
5
1
6
1
7
1
8
3
2
3
1
3
0
2
9
2
8
2
7
2
6
2
5
2
4
2
3
2
2
2
1
2
0
1
9
3
3
3
4
3
5
3
8
3
6
3
7
3
9
4
0
4
1
4
2
4
3
4
4
1
A
2
A
Leslie Street
20 spaces dedicated 24/7
2 ADA spaces 
+20 spaces when office closed
PROJECT 
DESCRIPTION

--- page 128 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
•
General Plan and Zoning Code
•
Local Plans
•
Entitlements
22
• General Plan Land Use – Transit Oriented Development (TOD)
• Zoning District – TOD
Proposed
Maximum
Floor Area Ratio
4.1 *
3.0
Density
73.5 du/acre
75 du/acre
Building Height
74’-2” *
55’-0”
Setbacks
0’-6” to 5’-11”
10’-0” (All Frontages)
Proposed
Minimum
Parking
402 + In-Lieu Fees
432
Short Term Bike Parking
22
15
Long Term Bike Parking
129
129
Open Space
Commercial
Residential (Private)
Residential (Shared)
5,713 sq. ft. 
72-346 sq. ft./unit *
4,615 sq. ft. *
1,796 sq. ft.
80 sq. ft./unit
6,840 sq. ft.
*Modified Via State Density Bonus Law

--- page 129 ---
SECTION HEADER

—— CITY OF ———_


--- page 130 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO


--- page 131 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO



--- page 132 ---
California Ninja Academy, LLC., dba Ninja Republic
Regan Fletcher, Owner
Application to the City of San Mateo 
For a Special Use Permit and Parking Variance 
to Operate a Commercial Recreation business at 1701 Leslie Street

--- page 133 ---
Why a Ninja Warrior Gym?
A family vacation planted the seed for a business idea and a career change
June 2019

--- page 134 ---
Popularity of Ninja Warriors
•
American Ninja Warrior has continued to grow in popularity since its debut in 2009 
with a grand prize of $1M; season 14 is now airing 
•
Ninja warrior gyms have opened across the US, Canada, Europe & Australia
•
Ninja warrior competitions are gender neutral. Women compete directly against 
men; girls against boys

--- page 135 ---
No other ninja gyms on the peninsula?
Warehouse real estate on the peninsula:
–
Limited inventory zoned for  ‘Commercial Recreation’ use
–
Ownership bias against recreational tenants
Traverse Fit – East Bay
King’s Camp & Fitness – San Carlos

--- page 136 ---
1701 Leslie is a Perfect Fit
•
Square footage, clear height and quality of the building make it ideal for 
recreational use
•
Prior use as a dance studio implied owner was open to Commercial 
Recreation tenants (accurate assumption) and that zoning aligned (inaccurate 
assumption)
•
Central San Mateo location and proximity to Hayward Park Station 
•
Landlord (IBEW Local 617) was supportive from day one and saw the 
business as an ideal tenant

--- page 137 ---
What to Expect?
Party Area
Entrance
Jr. Ninja
Warped Walls
Main Truss
Navy = 2” Foam Carpet
Red = 8” Crash Pads
Examples of Obstacles:
•
Cargo Nets
•
Swinging Discs
•
Unstable Bridge
•
Angled Steps
•
Cliffhangers
•
Spin Cycle
•
Flying Squirrels
•
Hanging Doors
•
Tumbling Dice

--- page 138 ---
What to Expect?
Open Gym – Come in for unstructured play
Classes – Beginner, Intermediate and Advanced based on age and ability; led 
by ninja instructors
Jr. Ninja – Unstructured play on the Jr. Truss for kids aged 3-6; nobody older 
than 6 allowed on Jr. Truss during Jr. Ninja hours
Birthday Parties – Ninja instruction on the Beginner level obstacles, competition 
for the party attendees followed by pizza & cake in Party Area
Local Hour – Open Gym and Classes available to Hayward Park residents at 
discounted rates

--- page 139 ---
Operating Hours
Sun
Mon
Tues
Wed
Thur
Fri
Sat
10a
B’day Party
B’day Party
10a
11a
Junior Gym
Junior Gym
Junior Gym
Junior Gym
Junior Gym
11a
Noon
B’day Party
B’day Party
Noo
n
1p
Home 
School PE
Home 
School PE
Home 
School PE
Home 
School PE
Home 
School PE
1p
2p
B’day Party
Hayward Park
Hour
Hayward Park
Hour
Hayward Park
Hour
Hayward Park
Hour
Hayward Park
Hour
B’day Party
2p
3p
Open Gym
Open Gym
Open Gym
Open Gym
Open Gym
3p
4p
Adult Open
Youth Classes
Youth Classes
Youth Classes
Youth Classes
Youth Classes
Adult Open
4p
5p
Open Gym
Open Gym
Open Gym
Open Gym
Open Gym
5p
6p
Adult Open
Pro Classes
Competition
Pro Classes
Adult
Competition
6p
7p
Teams
Beginners
Teams
7p
8p
8p
Birthday Parties – 1:45 time slots allow one party to clear out before next party starts, minimizing traffic
Junior Gym
– pre-school age only; limited to 10 signup slots (+ guardians) 
Home School PE – PhysEd classes for home school students; limited to 10 signup slots; 50-minute class
Open Gym
– gym open to anyone but limited to 10 signup slots for 3pm slot; limited to 20 for 5pm slot; 50-minute sessions
Adult Open Gym – gym open to adults only and limited to 20 signup slots; 50-minute sessions
Adult Beginners – instructor-based for adults who want to try ninja warrior without being overwhelmed by kids or pros; 50-minute sessions
Pro Classes 
– instructor-based and open to competition-level only; limited to 20 signup slots; 
Competition Teams – no min. age but limited to athletes training at competition level; focused on racing vs. instruction
Neighborhood
– discounted and reserved time slots for neighborhood residents; 50-minute sessions; see map on page 5
Youth Classes 
– instructor led classes and limited to 14 years old and under; 50-minute classes

--- page 140 ---
Guest Headcount
Sun
Mon
Tues
Wed
Thur
Fri
Sat
10a
20 kids +
parents
20 kids +
parents
10a
11a
10 kids + 
guardians
10 kids + 
guardians
10 kids + 
guardians
10 kids + 
guardians
10 kids + 
guardians
11a
Noon
20 kids +
parents
20 kids +
parents
Noo
n
1p
10 students +
guardian
10 students +
guardian
10 students +
guardian
10 students +
guardian
10 students +
guardian
1p
2p
20 kids +
parents
10 locals of all 
ages
10 locals of all 
ages
10 locals of all 
ages
10 locals of all 
ages
10 locals of all 
ages
20 kids +
parents
2p
3p
10 athletes
10 athletes
10 athletes
10 athletes
10 athletes
3p
4p
20 athletes
10 athletes
10 athletes
10 athletes
10 athletes
10 athletes
20 athletes
4p
5p
20 athletes
20 athletes
20 athletes
20 athletes
20 athletes
5p
6p
20 athletes
20 athletes
20 athletes
20 athletes
20 athletes
20 athletes
6p
7p
7p
8p
8p
*Weekday sessions will end at the :50 minute mark of the hour so one class can clear out before the other begins
** Birthday parties will end at the :45 minute mark of the hour so one party can exit before the next one begins

--- page 141 ---
Shared Parking
17th Street
Leslie Street
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
1
0
1
1
1
2
1
3
1
4
1
5
1
6
1
7
1
8
3
2
3
1
3
0
2
9
2
8
2
7
2
6
2
5
2
4
2
3
2
2
2
1
2
0
1
9
3
3
3
4
3
5
3
8
3
6
3
7
3
9
4
0
4
1
4
2
4
3
4
4
1
A
2
A
Total Spaces on Site:
44 Regular Parking Spaces
2 ADA Parking Spaces – Shared
IBEW:
24 Regular Parking Spaces for 
office use; M-F 8am – 5pm
Ninja Republic:
20 parking spaces assigned 24/7
40 parking spaces on weekends, 
holidays and after 5pm on 
weekdays
Double the dedicated parking 
spaces compared to Kirkpatrick
Birthday parties limited to 
weekends & holidays when 40 
spaces available
Posted signage on exterior of 
building directing Ninja Republic 
guests to entrance

--- page 142 ---
Ninja Republic will offer walkable recreational benefits to the immediate neighborhood, including: 
• Local Hour – Discounted admission to Hayward Park residents who can walk to the gym
• Local Hiring – Focused recruiting in the immediate vicinity (already have an instructor who lives near 
Trinta and two students from Aragon)
Neighborhood Serving
Hayward
Sunnybrae
Concar
Trinta
92

--- page 143 ---
In addition to adding a recreational benefit for the immediate neighborhood, 
Ninja Republic will be ideally situated for Caltrain commuters as well:
• Marketing efforts will promote Ninja Republic to commuters as a place to de-stress 
on their way home from work
• Starting at 5pm every weekday, all sessions will be adult-exclusive or adult-
inclusive, making Ninja Republic an ideal stop on a commuter’s ride home
• Commuting members of Ninja Republic will find a number of convenient retail 
services nearby that will maximize the efficiency of their stop at Hayward Park 
Station
Ninja Republic will be similar to ninja warrior gyms in Manhattan, Long Island, 
Chicago and Boston, all of which are easily & frequently accessed by subway or 
commuter rail stations. 
Commuter Serving