Chandler police remove Flock Safety camera near elementary school mid-meeting Watch Now Menu Local National Weather Sports Shop Scripps Watch Now Watch Now Close × Live Watch Alerts Search site Go Weather 7-Day Radar Impact Earth Hourly Forecast Contact the Forecasters Storm Shield App Severe Weather Alerts News Your Chandler News Your Gilbert News Your Mesa News Your Scottsdale News Your South Phoenix News Your Surprise News Your Tempe News Phoenix Metro Northeast Valley West Valley Southeast Valley Northern Arizona Central/South Arizona Arizona Crime Uncovered Impact Earth National News Videos Live Video ABC15 on YouTube ABC on Roku Contests Traffic Gas Prices Investigations Contact the ABC15 Investigators Let ABC15 Know Contact the Let ABC15 Know team Things To Do Entertainment Absolutely Arizona Sports Arizona Sports Small Stars Sonoran Living Contact Sonoran Living Marketplace Advertise With Us Now Hiring Home Pros Virtual Job Fair Your Health Matters About Us Contact Us Advertise with Us News Releases Staff Bios Apps TV Listings Jobs The Spot - Arizona 61 Antenna TV Court TV LAFF Support Submit a News Tip Manage Emails Apps Careers Search abc15 abc15arizona abc15 Investigations Uplifting Arizona Let ABC15 Know Let's Talk Things To Do Operation Safe Roads Smart Shopper The Spot - Arizona 61 Contests More + Quick Links + Investigations Uplifting Arizona Let ABC15 Know Let's Talk Things To Do Operation Safe Roads Smart Shopper The Spot - Arizona 61 Contests DirecTV has removed ABC15 Arizona – Here’s how to keep watching News Local News Southeast Valley News Chandler News Actions Facebook Tweet Email Chandler police remove Flock Safety camera near elementary school mid-meeting Chandler city council tables Flock Safety contract renewal after community pushback; one camera near Galveston Elementary came down mid-meeting Prev Next "I am not aware of any at the Galveston School specifically," Chapman said. Then the public spoke. "You say this won't be used for racial targeting or be put in residential areas, yet have placed cameras on every corner of predominantly brown neighborhoods, even having one pointed straight at Galveston Elementary School," one resident said. "What about the one pointed directly at Galveston Elementary School or what about the other 8 cameras in the only area of Chandler where over 60% of the population is Hispanic," another resident said. By: Molly Hudson Posted CHANDLER, AZ — License plate reader cameras are staying up in Chandler, for now. After council members and residents clashed Thursday night, the city's contract renewal with Flock Safety was tabled. But one camera came down in the middle of the meeting. That pole where the camera stood until late Thursday night, near Hamilton and Galveston streets, is still there, but the camera is gone. The community says it was pointed directly at an elementary school. At the start of Thursday's meeting, Chandler Police Chief Bryan Chapman was asked about that camera. "I am not aware of any at the Galveston School specifically," Chapman said. Then the public spoke. "You say this won't be used for racial targeting or be put in residential areas, yet have placed cameras on every corner of predominantly brown neighborhoods, even having one pointed straight at Galveston Elementary School," one resident said. "What about the one pointed directly at Galveston Elementary School or what about the other 8 cameras in the only area of Chandler where over 60% of the population is Hispanic," another resident said. Chapman returned to the podium. "During all of the comment section, we did work through our logistics point. That is a Flock camera on Galveston," Chapman said. We're all about Chandler — the schools, the neighborhoods, the businesses, the decisions being made at City Hall and in the community that affect your daily life. Connect with your community by joining the Your Chandler News Facebook Group! Chapman said the camera was one of 14 approved under a pilot program placed to address crime in the Galveston neighborhood. He said it had been on a list to be removed and repurposed for about a month. It came down during the meeting. "That's simply from the public pressure, and we can greatly increase that public pressure as much as we need to, in order to get Flock out of Chandler,” said Nathan Taylortaft, Co-Founder and Co-Director of East Valley Unite. “Yes, they took out one camera, but that doesn't mean this is the end, we have to continue to fight for this and continue to get Flock out of Chandler,” said Daisy Vega Monarrez, a community member. The city said the following in an email “repurposing the technology to higher traffic locations has been pending the resolution of permitting processes to enable that relocation.” I asked the city why, if relocation was already planned, it happened in the middle of a public meeting about that very camera. The city had not responded at the time this story aired on Friday. Council member OD Harris pushed to have all 40 cameras turned off until a final decision is made in July. That did not happen Thursday night. The council will meet to discuss the future of flock cameras further in an executive session. The date of that meeting has not been set. Your Latest Chandler News: Chandler pulls 5 license plate reader cameras from one neighborhood Molly Hudson WATCH: 10-year-old Chandler prodigy tackles college courses Cameron Polom Chandler teens win state finance championship, represent Arizona at nationals Jamie Warren Report a typo Here's how to get ABC15 back on DirecTV News Weather Traffic Smart Shopper Let ABC15 Know Entertainment Sports Don't Waste Your Money Support Sitemap Do Not Sell My Info Privacy Policy Privacy Center Journalism Ethics Guidelines Terms of Use EEO Careers KNXV FCC Public Files KASW FCC Public Files FCC Public File Contact FCC Application Accessibility Statement Scripps Media Trust Center Closed Captioning Contact abc15 abc15arizona abc15 © 2026 Scripps Media, Inc Give Light and the People Will Find Their Own Way