source: packet.pdf
sha256: 64d6beafd0170edd2eb89a71c8f4ad9cf7710bc8c763ed7ae0cc7a950ba48793
pages: 41
ocr_pages: 6
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Civic Arts Committee
September 12, 2022
4:00 PM
San Mateo City Hall
Conference Room C
330 West 20  Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
COMMITTEE MEMBERS
Dianne Whitaker, Chair
Robert Gooyer, Vice Chair
Seema Patel
Ginger Slonaker
Stephen Tabler
AGENDA
 
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call 
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Civic Arts Committee Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the Civic Arts Committee Regular meeting of July 11, 2022. (Whitaker, Gooyer, Patel,
Tabler)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the Committee at this time. State
law prevents the Committee from taking action on any matter not on the agenda. Your comments may be referred to staff for follow
up.
NEW BUSINESS
2.
Acceptance of donation of public art from Baywood Neighborhood Association – Recommendation
Recommend the City Council accept a donation of art to the City and approve Agreement with Baywood
Neighborhood Association.
3.
Racial Equity Art Project Process - Study Session
Provide feedback on the Request for Qualifications (RFQ) and the proposed process.
4.
Art in Public Places 2022 Report & Plan, Renewal of Civic Arts Committee, and Reappointment of Committee
Members - Recommendation
The Civic Arts Committee recommends the City Council approve the Art in Public Places 2022 Report & Plan,
renew the Civic Arts Committee for two years, and reappoint the current Civic Arts Committee members.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Committee members and staff report on their various assignments and liaison roles and requests for scheduling future items.
th
1 of 41

--- page 2 ---
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this meeting may
contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or polds@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to
make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received prior to the meeting in writing. Send comments to: civicartscommittee@cityofsanmateo.org until 12 p.m.
the day of the meeting.
2 of 41

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Civic Arts Committee 
July 11, 2022 
4:00 PM 
 
San Mateo City Hall  
Conference Room C  
30 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
COMMITTEE MEMBERS 
Dianne Whitaker, Chair 
Robert Gooyer, Vice Chair 
Ginger Slonaker 
Stephen Tabler 
Seema Patel 
  
MINUTES  
 
 
 
CALL TO ORDER 
CTO: 4:08 p.m. 
Roll Call:  
PRESENT: Chair Dianne Whitaker Vice Chair Robert Gooyer, Seema Patel, Stephen Tabler 
ABSENT: Ginger Slonaker 
STAFF: Heather Stewart, Senior Management Analyst 
CONSENT CALENDAR 
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If 
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately. The following items were approved separately due to 
applicable quorums for each. Motion passed as indicated. 
1. 
Approval of minutes of November 8, 2021 
 
Moved: Tabler; Second: Gooyer; passed 3‐0‐1, abstain Patel 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit a “Request to Speak” form at this 
time. State law prevents the Committee from taking action on any matter not on the agenda. Your comments may be referred to 
staff for follow up. 
 
None 
NEW BUSINESS 
2. 
ChabadNP Proposal – Approval  
 
Moved: Tabler; Second: Gooyer; passed 4‐0. 
3. 
Review of Project Status ‐ Informational 
 
Staff presented the Art in Public Places – Projects & Values report and provided information on status of 
various completed and in‐process projects. 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Committee members and staff report on their various assignments and liaison roles and requests for scheduling future items. 
 
None 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
Adjourned at 5:30 p.m.
3 of 41

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 22-6633
TO:
Civic Arts Committee
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
September 12, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Acceptance of donation of public art from Baywood Neighborhood Association – Recommendation
RECOMMENDATION:
Recommend the City Council accept a donation of art to the City and approve Agreement with Baywood Neighborhood 
Association.
BACKGROUND:
Resident volunteers of the Baywood Neighborhood Association (BNA) were interested in beautifying several of the 
landscape islands located throughout the streets in the neighborhood, in the public right-of-way.  They desired to place 
native, drought resistant, low-maintenance, pollinator plants. They hired a landscape architect to help design a plan that 
met those criteria and contacted the city for preliminary information about what would be required to proceed. During 
early discussions, staff reviewed their plans and indicated support of the proposed project, with the expectation 
communicated that the improvements would be maintained by BNA and that they would be responsible for removal if the 
improvements were not properly maintained. In the meantime, BNA was approached by local artists, John Sutti and Jim 
Murphy, about incorporating nature-themed sculptures featuring pollinators into the landscaped islands. One of the 
islands was re-landscaped as described above, and furnished with a new sculpture, without the needed permit or 
maintenance agreement, or approval for the art piece. This appears to have been the result of miscommunications, and 
staff is currently working with the volunteers/BNA to assist them in obtaining the necessary approvals to retain the 
existing improvements and ensure that future maintenance is provided. The remainder of this report will focus on the 
sculpture, as that is the element within the CACs realm of responsibility. Since it was already created and installed, the 
proposed sculpture is presented as-is, as shown in the attached project description.
Acceptance of Donation 
In Section 3.62.020 of the City’s Charter, the City Council decides whether to accept or decline any gift to the City and may 
choose to hold or dispose of the gift. This project includes both a donation of the art sculpture and landscaping, with the 
sculpture being the subject of this discussion. 
Approval of Art 
The Arts in Public Places ordinance (Chapter 23.60 of the Municipal Code) defines the Civic Arts Committee (CAC) to be the 
advisory body to the City Council for art activities. As with any donation or paid acquisition from the Art in Public Places 
Fund, the CAC are required to provide a recommendation to the City Council for acceptance or approval. As part of 
determining a recommendation, the CAC must apply the Guidelines for the Art in Public Places and the Public Art Criteria 
therein, assuring that those criteria are met (Attachment 2). 
4 of 41

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Long Term Maintenance 
This is one of the greatest interests and requirements for accepting the gift. The BNA has indicated that, by way of an 
agreement with the City, they are willing to accept the full long-term responsibility of the maintenance of both the art and 
the landscaping. The agreement will include a maintenance plan, at no added expense to the City, throughout the life of 
the project. As noted, should the art and/or landscaping fall in disrepair, the City would require or cause their removal. 
Visual Obstruction 
To ensure the safety of those traveling on the local streets, Public Works staff evaluated the sculpture and determined its 
location near the center of the island, and 3-foot height, would meet safety criteria for structure on the public ROW.  
The sculpture appears sturdy and expresses a pleasing result that reflects the intended pollinator theme. There have been 
multiple discussions regarding the requirements and expectations for acceptance of the donation, the approval for it to 
remain where installed, and the responsibility of long-term maintenance. An agreement is being prepared for Council that 
will reflect those and other City requirements, including insurance coverages, and will be signed by BNA prior to Council. 
Staff recommends a CAC recommendation to City Council.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This recommendation to City Council is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative 
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposal from Baywood Neighborhood Association
Att 2 – Guidelines for Art in Public Places
STAFF CONTACT
Heather Stewart, Senior Management Analyst
hstewart@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7164
5 of 41

--- page 6 ---
BAYWOOD TRAFFIC ISLAND  ARTWORK PROPOSAL
Project Description
We, the Baywood Neighborhood Association and the Zoetic Tapestry Project, propose to add 
artwork to the island at the junction of Kentucky Ave. and Nevada Ave. The artwork will 
complement the California Native plantings of California poppies, purple ceanothus, and 
orange-red California fuchsia.
We have employed  Ruhina Surendran (Landscape Architect #6499) who specializes in 
California native landscapes to create a design that is appealing to the eye as well as appealing 
to the butterflies, birds, and bees that we hope to attract.  The proposed artwork will blend well 
with the plantings.
We have chosen plants that are suited to the clay soil on the island and its poor drainage. The 
plants will not grow taller than 3 feet and the artwork is that height as well, in order to maintain 
site-lines for the traffic that surrounds the island. The artwork will have a colorful butterfly theme 
in concert with  the landscape plantings.
Project location
6 of 41

--- page 7 ---
499

Nevada Ave

7 of 41


--- page 8 ---
Island Conditions Before Project

8 of 41


--- page 9 ---
Island Conditions before project.
Site Plan Showing Proposed Location - drawing
9 of 41

--- page 10 ---
Landscaping Plan

EANOTHUS THYRSIFLORUS VAR. REPENS
ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM
REDUCED OUTLINE OF JUNIPER

BERBERIS AQUIFOLIUM VAR. REPENS

STIPA PULCHRA

1 LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR TO FINE GRADE ALL LANOSCAPED AREAS

2 EXSTING TREES, LIGHTS AND OTHER UTILITIES TO BE VERIFIED ON SITE BY CONTRACTOR PRIOR TO

CONSTRUCTION

3. 3" MULCH BED FOR ALL PLANTING BEDS

4, PLANTING SOIL MIX TO CONTAIN: 40% TOP SOIL. 30% SHREDOED BARK MULCH AND 30% SANO

‘5. REFER TO PLANTING PLAN FOR ALL PLANTING QUANTITIES:

8. THE QUALITY OF ALL PLANT MATERIAL SELECTED WIL FOLLOW THE GUIDELINES OF THE AMERICAN STANDARD

NURSERY STOCK BY THE AMERICAN ASSOGATION OF NURSERYMEN, UNLESS OTHERWISE REQUIRED

7. GUYING AND STAKING, PLANT INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE AND’ PRUNING TO BE DONE PER CITY GUIDELINES
PLANTS IN Q BE PLAN ROOT INTRUSION INTO

WITH ROG 10 PREVEN iS

UNDERGROUND PIPES
9. CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR INSPECTING THE SITE AND PROVIDING POSITIVE DRAINAGE AWAY FROM
TREES AND TOWARDS THE STREET
10. CONTRACTOR TO PROVDE EXACT PLANT VARIETIES AND CONSULT WTH H.0.A OR OWNER'S REPRESENTATIVE
(F SUBSTITUTIONS ARE REQUIRED.

PLANT LIST:
ue, | COMMON NAME JGENTIFIC NANE [sze_ | SPACING [QUANTITY
13 | varrow |ACHILLEA MILLEFOUUM |s corn [rv to2 | se
WA ARCTOSTAPHYLOS UVA-URS! ‘GREEN SuPREUE’ | Goton | s 104 | 45
( Jorccon crare BERBERS AQUFOLWM VAR. REPENS is com | 20s | 3
ICAUFORNA LILAC |CEANOTHUS THYRSIFLORUS VAR. REPENS scaon |e toil 3
(2 |seasve onsy [peceron GLAUCUS |s canon [to 2 | 22
BLUE FESCUE GRASS | FESTUCA IOAHOENSIS ‘SISKIYOU BLUE’ [s caton [to 2 | 10
“Rep CALIFORNIA POPPY|ESCHSCHOLZIA CALFORNICA ‘RED CHIEF |" Pots | 1° 10. | 190
[C-)|sonowa sage SALMA SONOMENSS [scorn [2 tox | 8
[@|rurece necocecrass |sneA puLcHRA [1 coten [2 tox | 6

MEHYLOS UVA-URSI “GREEN SUPREME" (LOW GROUNDCOVER)

OAK SAPLING

LANDSCAPE PLANTING WITH ARTWORK

RUHINA SURENDRAN,
LEED AP

1736 STOCKTON STREET
‘SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94133

t (415) 475-9231

ruhina.surendran@gmail.com
www. idesigniond.com

Project
KENTUCKY AVE. & NEVADA AV
CITY OF SAN MATEO

APN: ---—

OWNER:
PUBLIC R.O.W.

Sheet Titie

TRAFFIC ISLAND
ART & LANDSCAPE

=
z

RS
02/01/2022

PDDEDDDDDDDDE ¥F
E

Scale: 1/8" = 1'-0"

10 of 41


--- page 11 ---
Images of Proposed Artwork
Artwork showing as proposed.  Height of 36” to allow safe viewing.
Artist Statement: Proposed Artwork
Zoetic Tapestry Foundation has commissioned local artists John Sutti and James Murphy to
create a themed 3-D art sculpture to be gifted to the Baywood Neighborhood Association. The
artwork theme is “Butterflies”  and their importance as a contributor to nature and the
community. The final sculpture will reflect a contemporary visual depicting a Kaleidoscope of
colorful butterflies taking off in a flutter of flight. The sculpture will be welded together using a
plate steel backing with galvanized sheet metal 3-D butterflies in various sizes. Some will have
automotive grade paints applied as accents. The final sculpture will be  attached to
weatherproof sealed mounted wood posts. This artistic creation along with the site's flora
hopefully will encourage the neighborhood butterfly community to visit and become frequent
11 of 41

--- page 12 ---
visitors to the site. The artist envisioned the sculpture projecting a natural creative energy,
beautifying the neighborhood and providing awareness regarding the coexistance of butterflies
and community within the same living space.
Artist(s) Resume, Biography
John Sutti, Artist/Sculpture
John Sutti is a visionary artist whose plant based abstract paintings and sculptures translate his
dyslexic images into vibrant, cutting-edge works of art. His current body of work are stunning
multidimensional installations of paintings and sculptures which organically integrate shadow
and light, color, stillness and motion, symbol and language.
Much of Sutti’s imagery is drawn from a subconscious lexicon of symbols based upon childhood
dreams and fears. The psychology behind these dreams is rooted in his own experience
growing up with dyslexia and the challenges associated with it. The works themselves are thus
the resolution of these struggles and stand as elegant testaments to the power of creativity and
community and how through them, the improbable is possible.
Sutti’s passion for art unites with his commitment to donate 100% of the proceeds from the sale
of his artwork to Zoetic Tapestry Project, a nonprofit foundation that is dedicated to promoting
environmental awareness to the community through original art created by local young and
emerging artists.
James Murphy, Artist/Sculpture
Upon his graduation from the California College of the Arts, Danville California artist James
Murphy accomplished a successful career as an award winning Illustrator, Designer and Art
Director, completing projects for worldwide fortune 500 companies.
In 2014 he shifted his creative energy to focus on a full time career in fine art as a contemporary
realist and an interpreter of mass media.  He uses art as a tool to take common-place objects
and ideas and present them as visual impressions of life’s building blocks. Through the use of
simple subject matter and color his goal is to achieve a visual level of communication between
the artwork and the viewer.
As a visual communicator, he composes simple messages that stimulate feelings, awareness
and memories. Each artwork shares impressions of life, the environment and the world order
that surrounds us. These creative interpretations provide an unique opportunity to connect with
another’s life impressions when viewed. To reflect on one’s self and the world around them.
12 of 41

--- page 13 ---
Baywood Neighborhood Association
The Baywood Owners Improvement Association was formed in 1930 and has operated
continually since then.  In 2022 we adopted the DBA name of Baywood Neighborhood
Association (BNA) to reflect that membership does not require home ownership. Please refer to
us with the DBA name.
Baywood has the resources to maintain the artwork and is backed by Zoetic Tapestry (see next
section)  in this regard.   In addition to financial assets, we have recruited residents who live
next to the island to keep a watchful eye on its condition and to notify BNA if maintenance is
required.
Zoetic Tapestry Project
Zoetic Tapestry Project is a non-profit charitable organization/corporation 501(c)(3)
Our Mission: Inspiring environmental action by creating art programs that empower artists to
engage and educate the community.
Our Vision: Stewarding connections between artists, community and a healthy environment.
Proposed Schedule - Fabrication, Installation
The artwork is made of 1/4 “ in. Plate steel, galvanized sheet metal, treated wood, and
automotive grade paint. There are a total of three (3) combined units that represent the
sculpture. Two (2) of the units measure appox. 72” in width x 28” in height. One (1) unit
measures 48” in wide x 28” in Height. Final sculpture will be attached/supported on sides of
each unit to 4” in.dia.weathered treated wood uprights. Final sculpture not to exceed 36”
in.height when installed. Each unit will be installed with its own dedicated 1' ft. concrete footings
- two supports/footings per unit. The entire sculpture will be completely sealed and all weather
proof protected prior to installation.
13 of 41

--- page 14 ---
Baywood District Island #7 - Kentucky St. & Nevada St. - Butterfly Scukpture
6.0 ft.length section x2 Scale: 1.0 in.= 1.0 ft.

Top View

Metalized 0.25" Steel Plate Formulated Pattem

Floating Butterfly (Galvanize Metal)
Note: All Butterfly Art is double faced

36,0"

4.0" Dia. Wood Post
Highly Polished

Ing — 80.08 | >|

Elevation View
2/9/22

14 of 41


--- page 15 ---
Baywood District Island #7 - Kentucky St. & Nevada St. - Butterfly Sculpture

36.0"

2/9/22

27.0"

4.0 ft.length section x1 Scale: 1.0 in. = 1.0 ft.

Metalized 0.25" Steel Plate Formulated Pattern

Floating Butterfly (Galvanize Metal)
Note: All Butterfly Art is double faced

a Py -
Fn, Ce ¥ " all a
\ r if ? |
on J i i
ra si if af pat } pus :
[= , f i é =
_ hye ers f
AoA PY f | Pa 4,0" Dia. Wood Post
ra , od pA_/UY be rd i i
a a | = Highly Polished
E £4 a L
{7 ) x ot
—S “A a7 a ra
— ——— = a ~
aw a
ae
—— 489" ——_______
— 56.0" re +

Elevation View

15 of 41


--- page 16 ---
Statement Regarding Maintenance
Maintenance of the artwork will be provided by the Baywood Neighborhood Association and by 
the Zoetic Tapestry Project. If any vandalism happens to the artwork, Zoetic Tapestry Project will 
evaluate damage and make necessary repairs as needed.
16 of 41

--- page 17 ---
The Baywood Neighborhood Association carries $2,000,000 in General Aggregate Liability
coverage through the Scottsdale Insurance Company.  We can add the City as an additional
insured.  To do so, we will need an email from the City requesting this change.  Proof of
insurance is available upon request.
Statement of Insurance
17 of 41

--- page 18 ---
1
Heather Stewart
From:
Teresa Rose <
>
Sent:
Friday, September 2, 2022 11:51 AM
To:
Heather Stewart
Cc:
Christina Horrisberger
Subject:
Re: FW: Art in Public Places Program.pdf
How is this Heather? 
 
An addendum to the proposal: 
 
1. Please excuse the language in the proposal that speaks to the project will be done, as it has already been completed. 
 
2. Our request is an "Approval after action" request. We began this project under the guidance of Ron Hostick of the city 
Parks and Landscaping. We followed his directions and submitted a number of drawings that were accepted. At the 
point that we were complete, we installed the artwork and landscaping at the Kentucky/Nevada island. It turns out that 
as a relatively new employee with the city, Ron was not aware of the Civic Arts Committee, as we too were not. Now 
that we are, we are happy to explain our process. And we understand that the artwork can be removed if necessary. If it 
comes to that, our artists, John Sutti and Jim Murphy, want to remove it themselves. 
 
3.  We have approval from the Baywood Neighborhood Association (BNA) board to take long‐term responsibility for the 
maintenance of the artwork. Also we have a liability insurance policy that covers the artwork, and we have two 
neighborhood captains overseeing the island who are willing to report any maintenance needs. The BNA is happy to take 
the responsibility of keeping the artwork cared for as needs may arise. 
 
3. The assessed value of the artwork is $19,000. 
 
On Fri, Sep 2, 2022 at 10:59 AM Heather Stewart <hstewart@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote: 
Teresa, 
Thanks for the info, but you need to insert and update/revise the former proposal document accordingly, this is the 
BNA’s responsibility to submit a complete proposal. 
BNA has the original document, I do not. 
Heather 
  
PrivacyPrivacy
18 of 41

--- page 19 ---
1
Heather Stewart
From:
Michael Nash <mnash900@gmail.com>
Sent:
Friday, September 2, 2022 1:13 PM
To:
Heather Stewart
Cc:
Teresa Rose
Subject:
Baywood Artwork on Nevada and Kentucky Ave.
To: Heather Stewart: 
 
This is to confirm that the Board of the Baywood Neighborhood Association is fully aware of and fully support the 
project proposal on the subject avenues.  We also understand our responsibilities to maintain the artwork and 
plantings.  We do carry insurance and will provide same for this project.  We have asked to have the City of San Mateo 
added as an additional insured party which we will be done next week.  
 
I understand there are requirements in the forthcoming agreement with the city that we will need to sign.  I do not 
anticipate any issues in doing that. 
 
Please feel free to contact me with any questions.  Teresa is also representing the board in this endeavor and continues 
to have our support.  
 
 
Best Regards, 
 
Michael Nash 
President  
 
 
 
 
mnash900@gmail.com 
650 400 6274 
 
 
 
 
19 of 41

--- page 20 ---
1 
City of San Mateo Civic Arts Committee 
Guidelines for Art In Public Places 
Implementing Chapter 23.60 of the City of San Mateo Municipal Code 
 
 
 
In accordance with Chapter 23.60 of the City of San Mateo Municipal Code, the City of San Mateo Civic 
Arts Committee is charged with implementing the City’s Art in Public Places program.  This includes 
approving individual requests to install art as part of private development projects, as required by Chapter 
23.60.   
 
The Committee shall also make recommendations to the City Council regarding use of funds which are 
paid in-lieu of providing art work as part of private development projects.   
 
The following guidelines shall be used by the Civic Arts Committee in evaluating public arts as part of 
private development projects, and in the use of in-lieu funds.  However, from time to time the Guidelines 
may be subject to amendment by a vote of the Civic Arts Committee. 
 
1. Public Art Criteria: 
 
a. Criteria for Artwork: Criteria to be used when considering approval of artwork, either as part 
of a private development project or acquisition of artwork through the use of in-lieu funds, 
shall include but not be limited to the following: 
 
• 
Inherent Artistic Quality:  The assessed aesthetic merit of the piece as a work of art, 
independent of other considerations. 
 
• 
Context of Artwork with Site: Works of art must be compatible in scale, material, form, 
and content with their surroundings. Consideration should be given to the architectural, 
historical, geographical and social/cultural context of the site. 
 
• 
Media: All forms of visual art may be considered. Works may either be portable or 
permanently attached. 
 
• 
Permanence: Due consideration shall be given to the structural and surface soundness, 
and to inherent resistance to theft, vandalism and weathering. 
 
• 
Ability to Maintain: Significant consideration shall be given to the cost and amount of 
ongoing maintenance and/or repair anticipated, and the ability to provide adequate 
maintenance. 
 
• 
Public Safety and Accessibility: Each work shall be evaluated to ensure that it does not 
present a hazard to public safety and complies with all applicable building codes and 
accessibility requirements.  
 
• 
Diversity: The Arts Commission is committed to acquiring art works that are reflective of 
diverse cultural communities and perspectives. To that end, the Commission shall 
actively seek artwork from artists of diverse racial, sexual, and cultural identities. The 
program shall also strive for diversity in style, scale, media and numbers of artists 
represented 
 
• 
Feasibility: Proposed objects shall be evaluated relative to their feasibility and convincing 
evidence of the artist’s ability to successfully complete the work as proposed. Factors to 
be considered include, but are not limited to: project budget, timeline, artist’s experience, 
soundness of materials, city approval requirements, and level of community support. 
 
20 of 41

--- page 21 ---
San Mateo Civic Arts Committee Guidelines 
 
 
January 20, 2009 
 
C:\Users\hstewart\OneDrive - City of San Mateo\Civic Arts Committee\1-Admin & Committee Procedures\Guidelines for Art In Public Places.docx 
2 
• 
Duplication: To assure that the artwork will not be duplicated, the artist will be asked to 
warrant that the work is unique and an edition of one unless stated to the contrary in the 
contract. 
 
b. Site Criteria: Prior to approving a site for an artwork, either as part of a private development 
project or acquisition of artwork through the use of in-lieu funds, the Civic Arts Committee 
shall take into consideration the following factors: 
 
• 
Visibility and public access 
• 
Public Safety 
• 
Relationship of proposed artwork to existing or future architectural features, natural 
features and urban design. 
• 
Future development plans for area 
• 
Overall program goal or concept 
• 
Landscape design 
• 
Relationship of proposed artwork to existing art works within the site vicinity 
• 
Environmental impact 
 
c. Inter-Departmental Coordination: Location of public art on public property or in any way 
affecting public property shall require review and comment by the affected City department.  
For example, public art to be placed in a City park shall require review and comment by the 
City’s Parks and Recreation Department.   
 
2. Artist Selection Criteria:  
 
a. Criteria: When recommending that in-lieu fees be used to commission a work of art or 
purchase a work of art, the Civic Arts Committee will select artists on the basis of their 
qualifications, as demonstrated by the judged quality of their past work and appropriateness 
of their artistic expression, professional experience, or specific proposal for a particular 
project, and the assessed ability of the Artist to successfully execute the project within the 
project timeline, as determined by the Arts Commission in its sole discretion.  Other 
considerations include the artist’s current work load and/or the number of artworks by that 
artist in the Civic Art Collection. Consideration shall be given to local artists; however, the 
Civic Arts Committee is not limited to the use of local artists.  
 
b. Ineligible Applicants: The following persons are ineligible for Civic Arts Commission or 
purchase of their work based on a recommendation by the Civic Arts Committee:   
 
• 
Civic Arts Commissioners and members of their immediate family. 
• 
Elected or Appointed city officials and members of their immediate family.   
• 
City of San Mateo staff and members of their immediate family.  
 
 
3. Artist Selection Methods:  Art or Artists may be selected by the following means: 
 
a. Direct Purchase: An existing artwork is purchased 
 
b. Open Competition: The commission is advertised and project guidelines published. All 
professional artists may participate with possible limitations based upon geographical or other 
eligibility criteria. Upon review of materials, a single artist may be selected, or a limited 
number of finalists will be paid an honorarium to prepare a specific site proposal and/or 
attend an interview with the selection panel. 
 
21 of 41

--- page 22 ---
San Mateo Civic Arts Committee Guidelines 
 
 
January 20, 2009 
 
C:\Users\hstewart\OneDrive - City of San Mateo\Civic Arts Committee\1-Admin & Committee Procedures\Guidelines for Art In Public Places.docx 
3 
c. Limited Competition: Artists are considered for a commission by invitation only. Names of 
artists to be invited to apply are generated by Civic Arts Committee. Information to be 
submitted includes, but is not limited to the following: 
 
• 
Project description and goals 
• 
Project parameters and scope-of-work 
• 
Application deadline and project 
• 
Timeline 
• 
Application procedure and submittal requirements 
• 
Selection procedure 
• 
Criteria for selection of artist and/or artwork 
• 
Geographic restrictions for residency of artist, if any 
• 
Budget 
 
4. Amendment:  This document can be amended as necessary by a vote of the Civic Arts Committee. 
 
 
22 of 41

--- page 23 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 22-6640
TO:
Civic Arts Committee
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
September 12, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Racial Equity Art Project Process - Study Session
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide feedback on the Request for Qualifications (RFQ) and the proposed process.
BACKGROUND:
On July 20, 2020, the City Council adopted a resolution reaffirming the City of San Mateo’s commitment to racial equality.
The Council also supported a community mural or other community art project that would promote racial
equity and directed the Civic Arts Committee (CAC) as the appropriate body to facilitate the community discussion
about the form, location, and other ideas that would express the desired message in a long-lasting way.
Over the pandemic years, there have been various issues that impacted the implementation of the previous process 
developed, resulting in the project’s delay in moving forward. However, with the recent decision to close the two B Street 
blocks to create a pedestrian plaza and with improved staff capacity, now is the opportunity to move forward with this 
project.
The new, larger location become available for this art project and is the largest, most expansive space with the highest 
visibility for pedestrians in the plaza. With that, staff from the City Manager’s Office and Community Development 
Department (CDD) determined that the process needed to be revised and determined that the most viable way to address 
the City Council and public interests is a Request for Qualification (RFQ) leading to the artist(s) selection. 
This study session is to present the draft RFQ and request feedback from the CAC regarding content and the processes 
identified.
Process Summary
The process starts with the release of the RFQ: 
1.
Posting on the City’s website and sharing the RFQ to a broad span of art organizations, post calls for art, personal 
outreach, and other methods to invite artists to submit their qualifications for this project.
2.
The CAC will review initial submittals based on the criteria.
3.
It is anticipated to offer 5 artists an invitation from the CAC to submit a proposal.
4.
Selected artists will receive a $1,000 stipend to develop their proposal.
5.
There will then be various methods to outreach and collect community feedback about the submitted proposals, 
such as targeted in-person workshops, online, and social media.
6.
The CAC will review the community feedback and determine the preferred artist(s) to recommend to the City 
Council for approval.
23 of 41

--- page 24 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Engaging the Public
It is very important to the City Council, the Civic Arts Committee, and the public that the San Mateo community has the 
opportunity to provide input for this important art installation. The City will invite our community to participate in helping 
inform the selection of the artist(s), the images they designed, and the message that is inclusive of our diverse community. 
To get the feedback desired, these suggested activities are intended to reach out in various ways: hosting a community 
workshop, collecting feedback from the external DEI taskforce, connecting with a high school art class, developing a social 
media outreach strategy, and creating interactive postings at MLK, Jr. Center, the libraries, and other public locations, etc.  
Printed materials will be provided in English, Spanish, and Chinese.
Staff would like to receive guidance on the following questions from CAC: 
•
Do you approve of the proposed process? Are there any changes you would like staff to make regarding the 
process?
•
What kind of feedback would help you select the preferred design? 
BUDGET IMPACT:
This study session is to gather information and direction. There is no budget impact for this activity.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Request for Qualifications for a Racial Equity Art Mural
STAFF CONTACT
Heather Stewart, Senior Management Analyst
hstewart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7164
24 of 41

--- page 25 ---
REQUEST FOR QUALIFICATIONS 
 FOR A 
RACIAL EQUITY ART MURAL 
 
CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE 
 City of San Mateo, CA 
 
September 2022 
 
 
The City of San Mateo is accepting Statements of Qualifications to select one or more professional 
or emerging artists to complete a racial equity art mural in Downtown San Mateo. All questions 
regarding this Request for Qualifications (RFQ) shall be directed to Denise Garcia at (650) 522‐
7277 or dgarcia@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
25 of 41

--- page 26 ---
Table of Contents 
Background .................................................................................................................................................... 3 
Project Overview ........................................................................................................................................... 3 
Qualifications ................................................................................................................................................. 4 
Process and Timeline, Evaluation Criteria ..................................................................................................... 4 
Process and Timeline: ........................................................................................................................... 4 
Artists Evaluation Criteria: .................................................................................................................... 5 
Budget and Specifications ............................................................................................................................. 5 
Budget: .................................................................................................................................................. 5 
Specifications: ....................................................................................................................................... 5 
Submittal Requirements ................................................................................................................................ 6 
Application Open and Closing Dates ............................................................................................................. 6 
Questions ....................................................................................................................................................... 6 
Appendix A: Guidelines for Art in Public Places ............................................................................................ 7 
Appendix B: Sample Agreement ..................................................................................................................11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26 of 41

--- page 27 ---
Background 
The City of San Mateo is seeking professional and/or emerging artists to complete a Racial Justice Art Mural 
in Downtown San Mateo on the Pedestrian Mall strip.  
 
On July 20, 2020, the San Mateo City Council adopted a resolution reaffirming the City’s commitment to 
racial equity and requested a community mural or other art project that would promote racial equity. The 
Council identified the Civic Arts Committee as the appropriate body to lead this effort in recommending an 
artist(s) and their proposed mural.   
 
Project Overview 
Murals are a way to engage and celebrate community. In this tradition, the Civic Arts Commission, in 
collaboration with the community, is facilitating an opportunity to create a mural that explores San Mateo’s 
commitment to racial equity with the goal to facilitate communication and to improve equity for all in our 
community. 
 
This work will be located at the new Pedestrian Mall in Downtown San Mateo, which includes B Street 
between 1st and 2nd Avenue and 2nd and 3rd Avenue. Each block is approximately 300 feet long. This location 
is the heart of the City and it concentrates public spaces, dining, and shopping for an enjoyable experience 
for all visitors. This Downtown location has a high visibility by pedestrians, making it an ideal location for a 
community art project. Having two blocks available, there are multiple options artist(s) may seek that 
include: 
 
One artist that uses both blocks for the project that offers a larger area for a more content  
 
Each block has a different artist that allows for different styles 
 
Content of each block may be singular in style or utilize both blocks for a broader mural that is 
consistent in styles 
 
The art space is limited to the Emergency Vehicle (EV) lane in the center of the street, but artist(s) 
can decide how much of the space they would like to use within that allotted space. 
 
As currently envisioned, this mural or murals will be painted on the street and will be designed to enhance 
the public use and aesthetics of the Pedestrian Mall while highlighting racial equity. The mural(s) will have a 
lifespan of approximately 5 years and will be required to use durable materials and paint to ensure the 
longevity of the mural(s).  
 
The City seeks artists and/or artist teams to engage in a collaborative project that brings the community 
together, and, most importantly, raises awareness surrounding the growing demand for representation of 
San Mateo’s diverse population, commitment to racial and social justice, and bring to light the changes we 
deeply desire.  
 
The theme of racial equity should be the core of the mural. However, below is a list of themes artists may 
want to consider as relevant to the project. These may serve as starting points for artistic inspiration.  
 
Dismantling segregation / moving to opportunity 
 
Indigenous histories 
 
Migration histories 
 
Cultural vibrancy  
27 of 41

--- page 28 ---
 
Unity / Centering community 
 
Racial and social justice movements specific to San Mateo or the Peninsula at large 
Qualifications 
This Request for Qualifications is open to all artists, with priority consideration given to those living in or 
having a relation to the City of San Mateo or San Mateo County. Artists of color and BIPOC, women, 
gay/lesbian/transgender/non‐binary/queer, and members of historically marginalized groups are strongly 
encouraged to apply. Though there is a strong interest to find the most appropriate local artist(s), artist(s) 
who identify with the Bay Area are also welcomed to submit.  
 
Artists should be comfortable creating works that center on racial equity and social justice.  
 
Artist Selection Criteria 
 
A practitioner in the visual arts with an original, self‐conceptualized body of work, generally 
recognized by critics and peers as possessing serious intent and ability or an emerging artist or 
student with proven interest and passion for art and community projects 
 
Experience working with substantial budgets ($50,000+) is preferred 
 
Must be able to show body of work 
 
Process and Timeline, Evaluation Criteria 
Process and Timeline: 
The Civic Arts Committee will review submitted qualifications packets based on the eligibility criteria listed 
below and anticipate selecting 5 artists to invite to submit a proposal that will include the following: 
• 
A rendering of the work, including the dimensions of the proposed art area 
• 
Identification of the theme of the artwork and a general statement about the art  
• 
Description of the key elements within the art design, including any specific meanings 
• 
Description of artist’s application of art process 
• 
Proposed budget that includes the cost estimates of all design, planning, materials, and installation. 
 
The selected artists will receive a stipend of $1,000 for creation of that proposal, to be paid after receipt of 
proposal, and this proposal will become the property of the City. The selected artists will be required to 
comply with the Guidelines for Art in Public Places (Appendix A) and the terms of the Artist Agreement 
(Appendix B). 
 
The proposals/rendering will be shared through various methods to outreach and collect feedback from the 
community, dates yet to be determined. The outreach activities may include the following, but are not 
limited to:  
 
Community workshop 
 
DEI Task Force review 
 
Coordination with local High school students  
 
Social media outreach/community survey 
 
 
 
28 of 41

--- page 29 ---
Upon completion of gathering and reviewing the community input, the Civic Arts Committee will identify 
the preferred artist. As a result of the review of the community input, there may be some discussion with 
the preferred artist regarding any desired or possible adjustments to the design as applicable. Once the 
preferred artist(s) and City concur on the design, the CAC will recommend the selected artist(s) to the City 
Council for final approval. The date for the City Council meeting is currently scheduled for DAY, MONTH, 
DATE, YEAR, TIME (date subject to change). 
 
Artists Evaluation Criteria: 
• 
Original artwork that exhibits a personal style, artist descriptions, and/or resume. This can include 
student work, local gallery work, personal projects. 
• 
Artistic and/or artist teams excellence of past work 
• 
Experience with public art or large scale, permanent work 
• 
Experience with site‐specific artwork 
• 
Ability to spend time in San Mateo for research and conceptualization 
• 
Open to connecting with the community while painting 
 
Budget and Specifications 
Budget: 
Total project budget will include the stipends for all requested proposals, the selected artist’s fee, all 
necessary materials for the mural and mural installation costs.  
 
Specifications: 
This work will be located at the Pedestrian Mall (options to have the mural(s) on the streets of B Street 
between 1st and 2nd Avenue and/or 2nd and 3rd Avenue) in Downtown San Mateo. Artists will share location 
preferences and implementation process when invited to submit a proposal.  
 
Additionally, the suggested paint product that has increased durability on street surfaces will be shared 
with the artists who are invited to a submit a proposal.  
 
 
29 of 41

--- page 30 ---
Submittal Requirements 
Submissions must be delivered no later than 5:00pm PST on DAY, MONTH, DATE, YEAR. 
 
Submissions can be submitted electronically to dgarcia@cityofsanmateo.org or delivered to/dropped off at 
the City Manager’s Office located at 330 W 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA, 94403. If submitting electronically, 
documents must be sent in a single PDF file. 
 
The submission must include: 
 
1. A Statement of Qualifications limited to 2 pages and must include the following: 
a. A statement of interest outlining your approach to public art;  
b. Your interest in this specific project;  
c. The possible aesthetic direction or narrative; 
d. What you bring to the project as an artist; 
e. Your experience with other projects of similar scope;  
f. 
Sources of inspiration presented by the project;  
g. Your approach to implementing the art project; and 
h. Any other comments that might help differentiate you as a candidate.  
2. A professional resume/CV that includes your name, address, phone number, and email. 
3. A link to an online portfolio and/or hard copy photographs (PDF required) of specific images of past 
works. 
a. If an online portfolio does not describe the following information, or if providing a PDF 
portfolio, be sure to provide the following information: 
i. A maximum of eight images with a brief description for each project including the 
title, size, and artist’s intent. 
4. At least three professional references (can include instructor or mentor references) for artists 
and/or design teams with contact information and connection to artist(s).  
5. Finalists must able to attend and present rendering at the community meeting scheduled for DAY, 
MONTH, DATE, TIME (date subject to change). 
Application Open and Closing Dates 
The Request for Qualification period will be open from DAY, MONTH, DATE, TIME until DAY, MONTH, DATE, 
TIME. 
 
Further, community engagement events are scheduled on DAYS, MONTHS, DATES, TIME (dates subject to 
change). 
 
Questions 
Please email questions to dgarcia@cityofsanmateo.org by DAY, MONTH, DATE, TIME PST. Questions posed 
will be documented, respond to all questions, and posted will publicly on the City’s website RFQ post not 
later than DAY, MONTH, DATE, TIME PST. 
 
 
30 of 41

--- page 31 ---
Appendix A: Guidelines for Art in Public Places 
 
 
31 of 41

--- page 32 ---
City of San Mateo Civic Arts Committee 
Guidelines for Art In Public Places 
Implementing Chapter 23.60 of the City of San Mateo Municipal Code 
January 20, 2009 
 
 
 
 
In accordance with Chapter 23.60 of the City of San Mateo Municipal Code, the City of San Mateo Civic Arts 
Committee is charged with implementing the City’s Art in Public Places program.  This includes approving individual 
requests to install art as part of private development projects, as required by Chapter 23.60.   
 
The Committee shall also make recommendations to the City Council regarding use of funds which are paid in‐lieu of 
providing art work as part of private development projects.   
 
The following guidelines shall be used by the Civic Arts Committee in evaluating public arts as part of private 
development projects, and in the use of in‐lieu funds.  However, from time to time the Guidelines may be subject to 
amendment by a vote of the Civic Arts Committee. 
 
1. Public Art Criteria: 
 
a. Criteria for Artwork: Criteria to be used when considering approval of artwork, either as part of a private 
development project or acquisition of artwork through the use of in‐lieu funds, shall include but not be 
limited to the following: 
 
 
Inherent Artistic Quality:  The assessed aesthetic merit of the piece as a work of art, independent of 
other considerations. 
 
 
Context of Artwork with Site: Works of art must be compatible in scale, material, form, and content 
with their surroundings. Consideration should be given to the architectural, historical, geographical 
and social/cultural context of the site. 
 
 
Media: All forms of visual art may be considered. Works may either be portable or permanently 
attached. 
 
 
Permanence: Due consideration shall be given to the structural and surface soundness, and to 
inherent resistance to theft, vandalism and weathering. 
 
 
Ability to Maintain: Significant consideration shall be given to the cost and amount of ongoing 
maintenance and/or repair anticipated, and the ability to provide adequate maintenance. 
 
 
Public Safety and Accessibility: Each work shall be evaluated to ensure that it does not present a 
hazard to public safety and complies with all applicable building codes and accessibility 
requirements.  
 
 
Diversity: The Arts Commission is committed to acquiring art works that are reflective of diverse 
cultural communities and perspectives. To that end, the Commission shall actively seek artwork from 
artists of diverse racial, sexual, and cultural identities. The program shall also strive for diversity in 
style, scale, media and numbers of artists represented 
 
 
Feasibility: Proposed objects shall be evaluated relative to their feasibility and convincing evidence 
of the artist’s ability to successfully complete the work as proposed. Factors to be considered 
32 of 41

--- page 33 ---
include, but are not limited to: project budget, timeline, artist’s experience, soundness of materials, 
city approval requirements, and level of community support. 
 
 
Duplication: To assure that the artwork will not be duplicated, the artist will be asked to warrant that 
the work is unique and an edition of one unless stated to the contrary in the contract. 
 
b. Site Criteria: Prior to approving a site for an artwork, either as part of a private development project or 
acquisition of artwork through the use of in‐lieu funds, the Civic Arts Committee shall take into 
consideration the following factors: 
 
 
Visibility and public access 
 
Public Safety 
 
Relationship of proposed artwork to existing or future architectural features, natural features and 
urban design. 
 
Future development plans for area 
 
Overall program goal or concept 
 
Landscape design 
 
Relationship of proposed artwork to existing art works within the site vicinity 
 
Environmental impact 
 
c. 
Inter‐Departmental Coordination: Location of public art on public property or in any way affecting public 
property shall require review and comment by the affected City department.  For example, public art to 
be placed in a City park shall require review and comment by the City’s Parks and Recreation 
Department.   
 
2. Artist Selection Criteria:  
 
a. Criteria: When recommending that in‐lieu fees be used to commission a work of art or purchase a work 
of art, the Civic Arts Committee will select artists on the basis of their qualifications, as demonstrated by 
the judged quality of their past work and appropriateness of their artistic expression, professional 
experience, or specific proposal for a particular project, and the assessed ability of the Artist to 
successfully execute the project within the project timeline, as determined by the Arts Commission in its 
sole discretion.  Other considerations include the artist’s current work load and/or the number of 
artworks by that artist in the Civic Art Collection. Consideration shall be given to local artists; however, 
the Civic Arts Committee is not limited to the use of local artists.  
 
b. Ineligible Applicants: The following persons are ineligible for Civic Arts Commission or purchase of their 
work based on a recommendation by the Civic Arts Committee:   
 
 
Civic Arts Commissioners and members of their immediate family. 
 
Elected or Appointed city officials and members of their immediate family.   
 
City of San Mateo staff and members of their immediate family.  
 
 
3.  Artist Selection Methods:  Art or Artists may be selected by the following means: 
 
a. Direct Purchase: An existing artwork is purchased 
 
b. Open Competition: The commission is advertised and project guidelines published. All professional artists 
may participate with possible limitations based upon geographical or other eligibility criteria. Upon 
review of materials, a single artist may be selected, or a limited number of finalists will be paid an 
honorarium to prepare a specific site proposal and/or attend an interview with the selection panel. 
33 of 41

--- page 34 ---
c. 
Limited Competition: Artists are considered for a commission by invitation only. Names of artists to be 
invited to apply are generated by Civic Arts Committee. Information to be submitted includes, but is not 
limited to the following: 
 
 
Project description and goals 
 
Project parameters and scope‐of‐work 
 
Application deadline and project 
 
Timeline 
 
Application procedure and submittal requirements 
 
Selection procedure 
 
Criteria for selection of artist and/or artwork 
 
Geographic restrictions for residency of artist, if any 
 
Budget 
 
4.  Amendment:  This document can be amended as necessary by a vote of the Civic Arts Committee. 
 
 
 
34 of 41

--- page 35 ---
Appendix B: oO

35 of 41


--- page 36 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 22-6632
TO:
Civic Arts Committee
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
September 12, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Art in Public Places 2022 Report & Plan, Renewal of Civic Arts Committee, and Reappointment of Committee Members - 
Recommendation
RECOMMENDATION:
The Civic Arts Committee recommends the City Council approve the Art in Public Places 2022 Report & Plan, renew the 
Civic Arts Committee for two years, and reappoint the current Civic Arts Committee members.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo’s Art in Public Places Ordinance (Ordinance) was approved in July 2005 to promote the development 
of cultural and artistic resources within the community (Chapter 23.60, “Art in Public Places”). Annual reporting is required 
by the Ordinance and each year an Art in Public Places Report and Plan (Report) is prepared for review by the Civic Arts 
Committee (CAC), which was established in 2005, and approval by the City Council. The report provides information about 
projects that have been completed during the calendar year, projects that are currently in progress, pipeline projects, and 
administrative activities. The 2021 Report was approved by City Council on November 1, 2021.
Administration
One of the requirements of the Ordinance is for private developers of projects over a $3 million valuation to either install 
an art piece of a certain value or pay a fee in-lieu of the art piece.  In-lieu fees are placed in the Art in Public Places Fund 
(Fund), and can be used for Ordinance administration, art acquisition, installation, and/or improvement, maintenance of 
City-owned public art, development of an Art in Public Places Master Plan (Master Plan), and other public art related 
activities. On November 15, 2021, as part of the City’s comprehensive fee study, the Ordinance was revised to increase the 
art obligation/in-lieu fee amount from 0.5% to 1.19% of the total building valuation, excluding the value of land acquisition 
and off-site improvement costs. The fee will automatically increase annually in line with the other City fee increases, which 
are based on the Construction Cost Index for the San Francisco Area. The purpose of the increase was to ensure City costs 
to administer the program are fully recovered.
Planning
On November 1, 2021, the City Council approved the 2021 Report and with that, the Civic Arts Committee (CAC) request to 
move ahead with the development of a Master Plan. To date, staff has begun researching various jurisdictions similar to 
San Mateo that have developed art master plans, or are in progress of doing so, to see where we may gain insights from 
others. Next steps include the collaboration of City departments to identify the subjects and activities to include in a 
Request for Proposals (RFP) for a consultant to facilitate the process and help the City develop the proposed draft plan. 
36 of 41

--- page 37 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Art
The Equity Art Project has made slow progress for several reasons, including resource availability. However, with the 
closing of B Street blocks for a permanent pedestrian mall and support of the CAC in Fall 2021, the mall has been identified 
as a unique and large enough space to use for this project. Staff is now working on drafting request for qualifications and 
subsequent request for proposals for the various elements of the project. This draft will be shared with the CAC for review 
and comments prior to release. 
Committee Renewal and Terms 
The Civic Arts Committee is a special committee subject to the provisions of Section 6.09 of the City Charter that states 
that the terms of such committees are not to exceed two years but may be extended by action of the Council for a period 
not exceeding the original term of the committee. The City Attorney interprets this provision to mean that the CAC may be 
renewed by the Council every two years for a two-year period and the current committee members may be reappointed. 
There are no term limits in place for this committee although the ex-officio City Council representative and the 
representative of the Planning Commission are subject to the existing terms of those bodies. Current members are: 
•
City Arts of San Mateo Representative – Dianne Whitaker 
•
AIA Architect Representative - Robert Gooyer 
•
Professional Artist Representative - Ginger Slonaker 
•
Planning Commission Representative - Seema Patel 
•
Chamber of Commerce Representative - Stephen Tabler
BUDGET IMPACT:
This recommendation has no budget impact, this report is a ministerial action only for the Civic Arts Committee.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This recommendation to City Council is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative 
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Art in Public Places 2022 Report & Plan
STAFF CONTACT
Heather Stewart, Senior Management Analyst
hstewart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7164
37 of 41

--- page 38 ---
1 
Art 
in 
Public 
Places 
2022 
REPORT & 
PLAN 
 
INSIDE 
PG. 2 
 
Art in Public Places 
Program 
 
Art in Public Places 
Fund 
 
Program Policy 
PG. 3 
 
Completed Projects 
PG. 4 
 
Developer Art Values 
 
Equity Public Art Project 
 
In‐Progress & Pipeline 
Projects  
CHABAD NP 
 NORTH PENINSULA CHABAD 
 115 MONTE DIABLO, SAN MATEO 
 
 
For his design of the screen for Chabad in San 
Mateo, Greg responded to the clients’ wish for 
arboreal imagery with a branch and 
pomegranate graphic that borrows from both 
traditional American quilt patterns and Jewish 
iconography. The environmental nature of the 
art also speaks to the functionality of the screen which is to both filter sunlight and 
temper solar gain entering the sanctuary. The work will be a beautiful addition to the 
building that can be enjoyed by the congregants, the children attending the pre‐school, 
and the members of the community. 
Artist: Greg Zall 
Dimensions: 6’5” high x 4’ wide 
Materials: 3/16” gauge aluminum 
Color: Cinnagold Dust 
Developers: ChabadNP 
Completed in August 2022 
38 of 41

--- page 39 ---
2 
ART IN PUBLIC PLACES PROGRAM
DESCRIPTION OF ART IN PUBLIC PLACES ORDINANCE AND PROGRAM 
The City of San Mateo’s Art in Public Places Ordinance (Ordinance) was approved in July 2005 to promote the development 
of cultural and artistic resources within the community (Chapter 23.60, “Art in Public Places”). Annual reporting is required 
by the Ordinance and each year an Art in Public Places Report and Plan (Report) is prepared for review by the Civic Arts 
Committee (CAC), which was established in 2005, and approval by the City Council. The report provides information about 
projects that have been completed during the calendar year, projects that are currently in progress, pipeline projects, and 
administrative activities.  
ART IN PUBLIC PLACES FUND
 
PROGRAM POLICY 
FUND SOURCES, USES, & FUND BALANCE
One of the requirements of the Ordinance is for 
private developers of projects over a $3 million 
valuation to either install an art piece of a certain 
value or pay a fee in‐lieu of the art piece. Should the 
art value not meet the obligated amount, the balance 
is required to be paid in‐lieu. In‐lieu fees are placed in 
the Art in Public Places Fund (Fund), and can be used 
for Ordinance administration, art acquisition, 
installation, and/or improvement, maintenance of 
City‐owned public art, development of an Art in Public 
Places Master Plan (Master Plan), and other public art 
related activities.  
 
Any art related activities that need expenditure of 
these funds requires a recommendation of approval 
from the Civic Arts Committee to the City Council and 
the Council’s approval. 
 
In recent years, several project developers chose to 
pay the in‐lieu fee. As a result, the fund balance in the 
Art in Public Places Capital Improvement Program 
(CIP) account is approximately $995,000.  
 
CHANGES TO ART IN PUBLIC PLACES FEE  
On November 15, 2021, as part of the City’s 
comprehensive fee study, the Ordinance was revised 
to increase the art obligation/in‐lieu fee amount from 
0.5% to 1.19% of the total building valuation, 
excluding the value of land acquisition and off‐site 
improvement costs.  
 
The fee will automatically increase annually in line 
with the other City fee increases, which are based on 
the Construction Cost Index for the San Francisco 
Area. The purpose of the increase was to ensure City 
costs to administer the program are fully recovered. 
 
PUBLIC ART MASTER PLAN 
On November 1, 2021, the City Council approved the 
2021 Report and with that, the Civic Arts Committee 
(CAC) request to move ahead with the development of 
a Master Plan.  
 
To date, staff has begun researching various 
jurisdictions similar to San Mateo that have developed 
art master plans, or are in progress of doing so, to see 
where we may gain insights from others.  
 
Next steps include the collaboration of City 
departments to identify the subjects and activities to 
include in a Request for Proposals (RFP) for a consultant 
to facilitate the process and help the City develop the 
proposed draft plan.  
 
A Master Plan Art is intended to align all public art 
related activities with current practices that meet the 
City’s interests and needs.  
 
The Civic Arts Committee will lead this effort and 
community engagement will be a vital component of 
the development of the Master Plan.  
 
 
 
39 of 41

--- page 40 ---
3 
COMPLETED PROJECTS
ART INSTALLED BY DEVELOPERS AT THEIR PROJECT LOCATIONS  
Two projects paid the in‐lieu fee, and two projects fully completed their art installations in 2022: ChabadNP at 115 Monte 
Diablo, as highlighted on the front page, and Windy Hill Properties at 406 E. 3rd Ave shown below. Formal completion of 
art projects requires installation in accordance with the approved proposal and final inspections for all art related 
building permits, the provision of financial documents confirming the obligated expenditures, and a recorded Covenant 
of Public Art Maintenance with San Mateo County to establish the property owner’s obligation to maintain the art.  
WAVE 
 406 E. 3RD AVENUE 
 SAN MATEO, CA 94401 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“Our concept is inspired by the beauty of the Bay waters 
and the vast railways that connect the Bay and San 
Mateo with the extended Bay area and the United States 
at large. Our design is a dynamic, airy, interactive resin 
and stainless steel sculpture that visually transforms as 
you move around it. The shape, line work and form of the sculpture symbolize ocean waves and currents, positive 
movement, travel, journeys, and exploration. The sculpture is independently beautiful in both day and night through 
translucent, colorful resin that radiates when lit.” 
 
Artist: Rachel Rodi 
Dimensions: 8’ high x 40” wide x 1” thick 
Materials: translucent resin panels & 
stainless steel  
Developers: Windy Hill Properties 
Completed in March 2022 
40 of 41

--- page 41 ---
4 
DEVELOPER ART 
VALUES 
VALUE OF COMPLETED PROJECTS 
The value of the two (2) art projects completed this 
year totaled $207,705. That reflects an approximate 
20% greater expenditure than the total obligated 
value. 
 
In‐lieu payments from 303 Baldwin and The Carey 
School projects totaled $386,989. 
 
The total installed art valuation for all projects in the 
current Art in Public Places Program totals $6,083,166. 
That results in $960,254 greater than the required art 
investment.  
 
Program in‐lieu contributions to date has totaled to 
$1,147,221. These in‐lieu fees help to sustain the Art 
in Public Places Fund for public art acquisitions, 
maintenance for existing city‐own art, and other art 
related activities. 
 
EQUITY PUBLIC ART 
PROJECT  
SUPPORTING RACIAL EQUITY  
In July 2020, the City Council adopted a resolution 
reaffirming the City of San Mateo’s commitment to 
racial equality and equity. The Council discussed the 
concept of a community mural or other community art 
project that would reflect and promote racial equity 
and diversity.  
 
The Equity Art Project has made slow progress for 
several reasons, including resource availability. 
However, with the closing of B Street blocks for a 
permanent pedestrian mall and support of the CAC in 
Fall 2021, the mall has been identified as a unique and 
large enough space to use for this project.  
 
Staff is now working on drafting request for 
qualifications and subsequent request for proposals for 
the various elements of the project. This draft will be 
shared with the CAC for review and comments prior to 
release.  
 
IN‐PROGRESS & PIPELINE PROJECTS 
This group of developer projects includes projects that have received Planning approval and have indicated 
intent to install art and are working on their proposals. Others are determining the project’s plans to meet the 
public art obligations. More information for these projects can be found on the What’s Happening in Development 
page on the City’s website. 
 
IN‐PROGRESS 
 
480 E. 4th Ave: Kiku Crossing ‐ MidPen Housing & City‐Owned Downtown site for Affordable Housing & Parking Garage
 
210 S. Fremont: Four‐story, 15‐unit residential condominium building. 
 
2940 S. Norfolk: Hampton Inn & Suites 
PIPELINE PROJECTS 
The projects listed below have been identified as projects large enough that are expected to be obligated to provide art 
or pay the in‐lieu fees. These few pipeline projects are those with project approval and have contacted staff regarding 
their art interests and obligations.  
 
 
180 E 3rd Ave: Three‐story retail and office building in Downtown 
 
Block 21 – 500 E. 3rd Ave: Six‐story mixed‐use building with office and 111 residential units 
 
Peninsula Heights: A 290‐unit residential development along Campus Drive 
 
Hayward Park: A five‐story residential building with 191 residential units 
 
 
41 of 41