source: packet.pdf
sha256: a471511dc4d593c7217868d7c5c6d054c2d087075e26526cfcc5c3bf41663702
pages: 21
ocr_pages: 9
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Park and Recreation Commission
Regular Meeting
September 4, 2024
7:00 PM
City Hall Conference Room C
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Sarah Fields, Chair
Peter Wicher, Vice Chair
Sandra Kiapi
Regina Trapp
Sabrina Ocampo
Vacant – Youth Commissioner
Thomas Jelniker – Youth Commissioner
 
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: September 4, 2024
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Webinar ID: 873 8381 0237  Passcode: 492152
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
CEREMONIAL
1.
Introduce and Welcome New Commissioner, Sabrina Ocampo
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
2.
Park and Recreation Commission Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the regular meeting of June 5, 2024.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the Commission at
this time. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not of the agenda; your comments may be
referred to staff for follow up. Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional
public comment may provided later in the agenda.
NEW BUSINESS
3.
Solar Carport Installation at Beresford Park - Informational
Receive an informational report on the installation of solar carports at Beresford Park in the parking lot on
Parkview Way.
1 of 21

--- page 2 ---
4.
Annual Parks Survey - Informational
Receive a presentation on the results of last year‘s Annual Parks Survey.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments and requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Commission meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: prcommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form and submit to the recording secretary.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate
in this meeting may contact the Parks and Recreation Administrative Office at (650) 522-7400 or by email
at parksandrecreation@cityofsanmateo.org.Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to
ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 21

--- page 3 ---
3 of 21

--- page 4 ---
4 of 21

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 24-9000
TO:
Park and Recreation Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
September 04, 2024 
SUBJECT: Solar Carport Installation at Beresford Park - Informational
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an informational report on the installation of solar carports at Beresford Park in the parking lot on Parkview Way.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo is a longtime leader in sustainability with ambitious Climate Action Plan goals to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions by 49% below the 2005 baseline by 2030. The City’s most recent greenhouse gas emissions inventory shows 
that the City reduced emissions 22% below the 2005 baseline in 2019. While this marks great progress in Climate Action 
Plan implementation, more work is needed to advance the City’s climate goals.
Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) is a joint powers authority developed in 2016 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 
providing electricity from clean energy sources. PCE’s Solar and Storage on Public Buildings Program works with 
jurisdictions across San Mateo County to identify public facilities to install solar through a Power Purchase Agreement 
(PPA). Through the program, jurisdictions can install solar systems to generate on-site electricity to meet and exceed the 
energy demand of municipal facilities. While much of San Mateo’s electricity already comes from carbon-free sources, 
increasing the amount of energy in the community from renewable sources not only further reduces greenhouse gas 
emissions but also has the potential to reduce electricity costs and enhance the local green economy. 
Through a Power Purchase Agreement with PCE, PCE and their vendor will own, design, install and maintain the solar 
system with no upfront costs to the jurisdiction. The jurisdiction then receives a fixed, economical rate for electricity for 
the 20-year term of the agreement. The fixed electricity rate is anticipated to save the jurisdiction on electricity costs over 
the lifetime of the solar installation because electricity rates are expected to increase every year. 
Project Overview and Impacts
The California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) has updated the tariffs governing solar photovoltaic resources. The next 
iteration of solar tariffs, known as the Net Billing Tariff (NBT), will be less advantageous for solar projects that do not 
include battery storage and will negatively affect solar-only project economics. Staff worked with PCE to evaluate and 
identify City facilities to install solar before 2026, and meet the three-year deadline associated with interconnection 
applications. In April 2023, PCE submitted interconnection applications on behalf of the City of San Mateo to lock in the 
tariff structure that is more favorable to solar-only projects before NBT goes into effect.
Because of the 20-year term of the Power Purchase Agreement, City facilities where there are necessary roof 
replacements or planned major repairs or renovations which could have sitewide impacts were ultimately removed from 
consideration. Beresford Recreation Center was identified to move forward in the program because it affords the greatest 
degree of certainty that the City can maintain adherence to the terms of the agreement for the 20-year term. The project 
5 of 21

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
team evaluated the Beresford Recreation Center building and all three parking lots at Beresford Park for solar installation. 
The Beresford Recreation Center was built in 1967 and the roof is overdue for replacement. The Recreation Center is on a 
priority list for replacement but funding and timing for the roof replacement has not yet been identified, thus the roof 
could not be considered for solar installation. The parking lots on Parkside Way and Alameda de Las Pulgas are heavily 
shaded by existing trees along the perimeter of the parking lots and would require the removal of heritage trees to 
accommodate the solar carports. Furthermore, in the Alameda de las Pulgas parking lot there was a concern about the 
potential conflict with the existing light fixtures that provide light to the bus stop on Alameda de Las Pulgas. These lots also 
required the greatest amount of trenching and traversing paved areas for infrastructure installation, which is more costly, 
disruptive, and time and labor intensive in terms of project construction. The lot on Parkview Way is the sunniest of the 
three locations and requires no tree or light standard removals and the least trenching through paved areas. However, the 
Parkview Way lot is the one that is closest to residences, with three living room windows directly on the other side of 
Parkview Way and some nearby second story windows having views of where the solar panels will be visible.   
The parking lot on Parkview Way next to the basketball court and community garden was identified as the project site. The 
project team estimates the installation of two carport structures with 76 kW of solar. The system is expected to generate 
118,033 kWh in the first year and will power the Beresford Rec Center. Through the PPA, there are no upfront costs to the 
City and savings are expected in the second year of solar generation. The fixed PPA rate is anticipated to result in cost 
savings since electricity rates are expected to increase over time. Attachment 2 shows the site map and solar carport 
project renderings. The project team anticipates trimming trees and removing bushes to accommodate the carport 
structures; however, the project will not result in the removal of trees or the loss of parking. The project team is evaluating 
the costs of boring and hand trenching for conduit and will aim for minimal disturbance to the park. A subsurface soil scan 
and existing underground utilities will inform the project team’s design for wiring and interconnection to Beresford 
Recreation Center. The solar carports will include motion-activated lighting. Lighting will be shielded and directed 
downwards to illuminate the parking lot without providing glare to the adjacent residences (see Attachment 3). Adjacent 
residences on Parkview Way, 27th Avenue, and 28th Avenue were notified of the project and this meeting via in-person 
visits and mailers as the new solar carports will be visible from adjacent residences. Mailers were also sent to residents 
extending to the ends of the surrounding blocks and notices were posted on-site to ensure those who could be impacted 
by project construction are aware of it. Additionally, Community Garden users were notified of the project and this 
meeting by email. 
PCE estimates project construction to begin in Spring 2025, with construction lasting about six to eight weeks. Most of the 
heavy construction, excavating foundations and erecting the carport structures, will be completed in about two weeks. 
Construction staging is anticipated to be limited to the project site. Construction will include drilling piers into the ground 
and the use of a scissor lift to lift materials up to the carports. During heavy construction, the parking lot will be closed, 
however, the north side of the parking lot next to the picnic shelter will remain open to the public. Other construction 
activities include wiring, trenching, and interconnection. Temporary impacts during construction will likely include noise, 
minor vibrations, temporary parking removal and construction vehicle traffic. 
The project will generate local renewable energy in alignment with the City’s Climate Action Plan and provide shade to the 
parked cars. Through the PPA with PCE, there are no upfront costs to the City and the City will benefit from reduced 
electricity costs for the lifetime of the project.
Next Steps
The Power Purchase Agreement with Peninsula Clean Energy for the installation of solar carports at Beresford Park will be 
considered at the upcoming September 16, 2024, City Council meeting. If approved, construction work is expected to 
begin in Spring 2025. Staff will notify adjacent residences and stakeholders prior to construction.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no fiscal impact for entering the Power Purchase Agreement with Peninsula Clean Energy. There is no upfront cost 
to the City for entering into the Agreement. The solar photovoltaic system is anticipated to provide utility cost savings over 
the life of the project beginning in Year 2. The estimated 20-year NPV at 3% discount rate is $185,900.
6 of 21

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.) The Power Purchase Agreement is exempt 
from CEQA as an “existing facility”, because it consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, 
or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, 
involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met. Staff notified residences located adjacent to the project site on Parkview 
Way, 27th Avenue and 28th Avenue of this meeting through in-person visits and a mailer. Mailers were also sent to 
residents extending to the ends of the surrounding blocks and notices were posted on-site to ensure those who could be 
impacted by project construction are aware of it. Additionally, Community Garden users were notified of the project and 
this meeting by email.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Public Comment
Att 2 – Site Maps and Solar Carport Renderings
Att 3 – Lighting Plan/Photometric Analysis
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7007
7 of 21

--- page 8 ---
8 of 21

--- page 9 ---
9 of 21

--- page 10 ---
10 of 21

--- page 11 ---
August 19, 2024

City of San Mateo
City Manager’s Office
Attn.: Andrea Chow
330 W. 20 Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

Re: Opposition to Proposal for Solar Carports at Beresford Park Community
Garden/Basketball Court parking lot

Dear Andrea,

Thank you for this opportunity to voice our opposition to the proposal for solar carports at
our beloved Beresford Park. We have resided across the street from Beresford Park for over
20 years and agree that Beresford Park is exactly as nicknamed, the Jewel of San Mateo.

While the City of San Mateo understandably is interested in meeting it’s Climate Action
Plan goals, using the small neighborhood parking lot at Beresford Park Community
Garden/Basketball Court to do so in unmerited. The parking lot has approximately 20
parking spaces and is surrounded by nature. Itis nota parking lot that makes sense for this
type of project. Your letter suggests that the project is to generate energy and provide
shade. These are superficial reasons. The main reason is likely for the City of San Mateo to
claim they have constructed something to meet their climate goals.

Our opposition to the proposal is based on a number of factors including the following:

e Small gain for big loss: Solar carports will change the feeling of open space at the
park and will produce little energy. The maintenance of the solar carports will be
costly and constant. Solar carports will be not only be aesthetically unappealing
but will have a negative effect on the heritage ambiance at Beresford Park.

e Detriment to wildlife: Beresford Park is unique in being home to migratory birds.

The surrounding creek, Eucalyptus trees, and natural grass at the park, as wellas it’s
location on the Peninsula, make the park a natural spot for migratory birds. A solar
carport will create confusion for the migratory birds and possibly be a deadly
obstacle for them as per the Migratory Bird Act.

e Liability to the City: Beresford Park has high winds as well as fireworks activity
during the year, particularly on New Year’s Eve and the 4" of July, which likely would
cause damage to a solar carport. While not intentional, it is likely that a wayward
firework would damage a solar carport and create a potential hazard. It is also likely
that the high winds would damage the solar carport creating a hazard toa
neighborhood passerby or park visitor.

11 of 21


--- page 12 ---
Beresford Park is our beloved neighborhood Jewel of San Mateo. It is our heritage park with
open space and migratory bird visitors. It deserves better than solar carports so the City of
San Mateo can check a Climate Action Plan box.

Thank you,
Patricia Hurst
On behalf of the Hurst Family

12 of 21


--- page 13 ---
13 of 21

--- page 14 ---
From: Colleen Dieterle

To: Andrea Chow

Subject: + Solar installation Beresford Park
Date: Fs just 13, 2024 9:31:11 AM
Andrea -

I left a phone message this morning but thought I would send you my email address also along
with a picture. I suspect there will be no other questions/objections to this project. I am all for
sustainability but.....Any chance of doing a mock up to see how this affects our property?

I am going to in and out of town until 8/26/2024. Perhaps we can have a conversation after
that?

I look forward to hearing from you.

Have a wonderful week. Colleen

COLLEEN M. DIETERLE, CPA

14 of 21


--- page 15 ---
Site Maps and Project Renderings

15 of 21


--- page 16 ---
16 of 21


--- page 17 ---
LN

17 of 21


--- page 18 ---
18 of 21


--- page 19 ---
19 of 21


--- page 20 ---
SHSOduNd ONILOND YO4 LON (worn '30Veo G3HSINIS LV S37GNVOLOO4 WANOZRHOH GNIVINIVN 38V NMIOHS S30WA TV) yo Soveo yd see

NOILONYLSNOO HOS LON - AYVNINITSed NOILVONAWWO9SY LNOAVT- SISATVNY OINLAWOLOHd - NV1d ONILHONM 1} 001 y6'0 “sdwe eg pue owed "0 uoqonpu pu usorarony edleo 1} G1 960 heaseiony SL UE BL JO

20} G71 $6°0 ‘winypos eunsseid ybly 10} 271 06'0 ‘epHeY eIeW WEIS @sprd 40} GT) OB su q SBune! uewiny WeaLs
poysiignd Uo posed s1 suojepojes esau) UI posn seounos Aae69] 40 (71) UoNeIoe1dep LOL dweI aU) - Poyloads OSIMVOYIO SSOIUN :O}ON

zevoma'y- ow-wnosesez

DNILHDIT 2VNOISIA fp,

Vo “OSV NVS-V NOILEO

SLNOdVO HBLNBO 934 GHOISSY3E

OLtL Ise : soueuTWnTTI 180d BVO GAL
utw/xew | utw/baw adknoteo Teqet

Axeuumg uoTzeTnoTeD

E

BRN BNOYAL

“ONT 'SSALLVINASSUd3Y ONILHON GaLVIOOSSV

SeT'AND Mp MSp STSL Mud Ste Sh T6LS  0S8°0 ANN-MP-MSP-STSL-Wad FAIYNOISTA eTbuts oT WwW SG ©

‘SUSININIS MBNNH,

eureue{tgZ soznog eleg szqem *20L sqqem ‘wny |] suswny ‘un y aTT uot dtzoseg | qususefueszy ("3H Hut junow | TeqeT 440. toquas

Addn 01410373 NIV

FRSEDREEE

aTnpeyos erztTeutunt

woneuoyuy Bue

MalA NW 1d w0-0b = wb ATIWOS

“ONI 'S3ALLVINASUd3Y ONLHONT CALVIOOSSV

=

suoneoyoeds G37 Yd

aoe
‘sjsAjouy BUAUEN

OOZNOINEA. 220"

82ze “w aTIANOSxOWE (09 aLINS ‘ISAM AVM SwMogvaNAwa 0008
‘SAVIMLIOS SZFIVAH oss ON SUS. TENY DNLHON ZOE 0)

|
i
i
:

94 00"! SNTVA SNNOSI
TQ TQ ey
94 06'0 SNIVA SNIMOSI
rg ot

“oul ‘Senjequaseidey Bunybr] payeloossy



--- page 21 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 
File ID: 24-9053
TO:
Park and Recreation Commission
FROM:
Joanne Magrini
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
September 04, 2024 
SUBJECT:
Annual Parks Survey - Informational 
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a presentation on the results of last year‘s Annual Parks Survey. 
BACKGROUND:
The Parks and Recreation Department holds an annual parks survey aimed at gathering community feedback to help 
inform future decisions regarding local parks. The questions asked, help staff understand usage of our parks, current 
perception of the existing amenities and equipment and what respondents would like to see more of in our parks. 
Last year's survey took place from June 7, 2024, to July 7, 2024. It was promoted via signage in all City of San Mateo parks 
and community centers, social media posts, City newsletters and promotions at the Central Park Music Series and 
garnered over 700 responses. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact related to this informational item.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This presentation is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Giovana Orozco, Administrative Technician
gorozco@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7400
21 of 21