San Jose police head off multimillion-dollar abuse verdict – The Mercury News Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 73°F Friday, September 11th 2026 Today's e-Edition Home Page News News Latest Headlines Crime and Public Safety California News National News World News Politics Education Environment Science Health Transportation Weather Local Bay Area San Jose Santa Clara County Peninsula San Mateo County Alameda County Santa Cruz County Sal Pizarro Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Opinion Opinion Editorials Opinion Columnists Letters to the Editor Commentary Cartoons Election Endorsements Sports Sports San Francisco 49ers San Francisco Giants Golden State Warriors Raiders Athletics San Jose Sharks San Jose Earthquakes Bay FC College Sports Wilner Hotline High School Sports Other Sports Sports Columnists Sports Blogs Golden State Valkyries Things To Do Entertainment Readers Choice Things To Do Restaurants, Food and Drink Celebrities TV Streaming Movies Music Theater Lifestyle Cannabis Advice Travel Pets and Animals Comics Puzzles and Games Horoscopes Event Calendar Business Business Housing Economy Technology Best Reviews SiliconValley.com Marketplace Branded Content Partner Content BayArea.com Real Estate BestReviews Branded Content Paid Content by Brandpoint Subscribe Advertise Log in Logout Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up San Jose police head off multimillion-dollar… Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Subscribe Log in Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up Subscribe Log in Search 73°F Friday, September 11th 2026 Today's e-Edition California News News Local Sports Obituaries Things to Do Business Real Estate Opinion Marketplace e-Edition BestReviews Trending: 49ers report card SJ parking rate increase Death of Aurora Williams License plate switch SJ’s 19th homicide Papa rehired by KNBR Breaking News More evacuation warnings, road closures for wind-driven wildfire outside Mendocino National Forest News California News San Jose police head off multimillion-dollar abuse verdict Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X By Howard Mintz | Mercury News, Bay Area News Group PUBLISHED: September 8, 2015 at 5:18 AM PDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... In the latest twist in a family’s10-year legal battle with San Jose police, a federal appeals court on Tuesday officially wiped out a multimillion-dollar jury verdict in a lawsuit alleging officers illegally seized three young children and placed them in protective custody. The ruling set aside what is believed to be one of the largest judgments against the police department in recent history, determining that a federal jury’s $3.25 million verdict in 2011 was excessive. The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals agreed with the trial judge, who set aside the damages and determined that a new trial was warranted — a second jury in 2012 awarded the family about $210,000 in damages, prompting an appeal of the decision to retry the first, larger verdict. The 9th Circuit found that, in particular, the original jury verdict, which included a harsh judgment for punitive damages, had to be retried to reassess what San Jose police should pay. The jury had determined that detective William Hoyt and Sgt. Craig Blank violated the constitutional rights of Tracy Watson, Renee Stalker and their children after the officers entered their home without a warrant in 2005 and seized the children, who were kept from their parents for more than a year. The family still prevailed in much of their case but will come away with far less money from the lawsuit. “(The) officers’ conduct, while reckless, did not rise to the level of reprehensibility that would justify the amount of punitive damages awarded in the first trial,” Judge Richard Clifton wrote for the three-judge panel. On June 29, 2005, Hoyt, Blank, five other police officers and county social workers came to the family’s home on Braden Court and entered without a search warrant, looking into concerns about sexual abuse. The couple’s 3-year-old autistic son and an infant boy were home with their grandmother, and city officials said police could not reach the mother — who was in the hospital for surgery — and thought Watson was with their 8-year-old daughter. So they placed the boys into the custody of county child protective services, and then did the same with the girl the next day. At the time, police had become alarmed by the strange sexual behavior exhibited by the family’s daughter, and the father’s lack of cooperation during their abuse investigation. But the family argued the girl had never told investigators she had been molested, and there was no evidence of abuse. Watson denied the girl had ever done anything sexual, maintaining he was targeted because he had hired an attorney after a feud with the school district. At the time, a San Jose judge ruled the officers acted correctly in taking the kids. It wasn’t until the family moved to Napa County in 2006 — nearly 1½ years after the initial seizure — that social workers there reviewed the case and quickly returned the children to the family, according to the family’s lawyers. In 2007, the family sued the city, police, the county, the school district and several officials. The family settled with the county and school officials for an undisclosed amount. The case against the city, however, went to trial four years ago, with jurors unanimously deciding that the officers did not have enough evidence to justify taking the kids and entering the home without a search warrant. The jury found that the officers had violated the family’s Fourth Amendment rights against unreasonable search and seizure, and their 14th Amendment rights against government prohibiting “life, liberty or property” without taking proper measures. Jurors awarded financial penalties plus $2 million in punitive damages, which are designed to punish defendants for intentional wrongdoing. “It’s the most horrific thing (that) no parent should ever have to go through, no child should ever have to go through,” Watson, a marketer who now lives in Napa, told this newspaper after the verdict. The “police charging into your house, stealing your kids.” Howard Mintz covers legal affairs. Contact him at 408-286-0236 or follow him at Twitter.com/hmintz Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Most Popular Most Popular Milpitas woman killed 2 of her friends the same day, one in hit-and-run, police say Milpitas woman killed 2 of her friends the same day, one in hit-and-run, police say Dolly Parton paid for her longtime driver’s gender-affirming care: She was ‘a very nice lady’ Dolly Parton paid for her longtime driver's gender-affirming care: She was 'a very nice lady' Dear Abby: I want to know how my friend died. My letter to his widow was returned. Dear Abby: I want to know how my friend died. My letter to his widow was returned. Do I need Netflix to watch the 49ers vs. Rams season opener? Do I need Netflix to watch the 49ers vs. Rams season opener? Harriette Cole: Our date went great. Then I found out where he lives. Harriette Cole: Our date went great. Then I found out where he lives. El Niño: Why chances are increasing for lots of rain this winter in the Bay Area and across California El Niño: Why chances are increasing for lots of rain this winter in the Bay Area and across California A new California law will ban watering decorative grass, even in non-drought years, starting Jan. 1 A new California law will ban watering decorative grass, even in non-drought years, starting Jan. 1 Harriette Cole: Hey, Mr. Work Van, this is why there’s no second date Harriette Cole: Hey, Mr. Work Van, this is why there's no second date Medical examiner rules 8-year-old San Jose girl’s death a homicide, cites medical neglect Medical examiner rules 8-year-old San Jose girl’s death a homicide, cites medical neglect California has run out of license plate numbers. Here’s what happens now. California has run out of license plate numbers. Here's what happens now. More in News Teen boy suffers life-threatening injuries in Union City crash Inaugural San Jose Book Festival set for Saturday ‘Literally our defense’: Key witness’ past debated ahead of former Oakland mayor’s corruption trial ‘Literally our defense’: Key witness’ past debated ahead of former Oakland mayor’s corruption trial 2015 September 8 News Alerts Email Newsletters Today’s e-Edition Mobile Apps Site Map Marketplace Place an Obituary Place a Real Estate Ad Lottery Contact Us Digital Access FAQ Join our Team Special Sections Sponsor a Group Get Sponsored Access Privacy Policy Accessibility Post Your Local Event Policies and Standards Advertise With Us Network Advertising Daily Ads Place a Legal Notice Public Notices Subscribe Member Services Manage Subscriptions The Mercury News Store Archive Search Reprints Subscribe Now Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Powered by WordPress.com VIP Copyright 2026 The Mercury News. All rights reserved. The use of any content on this website for the purpose of training artificial intelligence systems, algorithms, machine learning models, text and data mining, or similar use is strictly prohibited without explicit written consent. Close sponsored sponsored sponsored