Richmond approves new surveillance camera contract, delays ALPR decision Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 60°F Friday, October 9th 2026 Today's e-Edition Home Page News News Latest Headlines Crime and Public Safety California News National News World News Politics Education Environment Science Health Transportation Weather Local Bay Area San Jose Santa Clara County Peninsula San Mateo County Alameda County Santa Cruz County Sal Pizarro Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Opinion Opinion Editorials Opinion Columnists Letters to the Editor Commentary Cartoons Election Endorsements Sports Sports San Francisco 49ers San Francisco Giants Golden State Warriors Raiders Athletics San Jose Sharks San Jose Earthquakes Bay FC College Sports Wilner Hotline High School Sports Other Sports Sports Columnists Sports Blogs Golden State Valkyries Things To Do Entertainment Readers Choice Things To Do Restaurants, Food and Drink Celebrities TV Streaming Movies Music Theater Lifestyle Cannabis Advice Travel Pets and Animals Comics Puzzles and Games Horoscopes Event Calendar Business Business Housing Economy Technology Best Reviews SiliconValley.com Marketplace Branded Content Partner Content BayArea.com Real Estate BestReviews Branded Content Paid Content by Brandpoint Subscribe Advertise Log in Logout Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up Crime and Public Safety | Richmond approves new surveillance camera… Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share a free article with a friend GIFT THIS ARTICLE What is article sharing? Subscribers are entitled to 10 gift sharing articles each month. These can be shared with friends and family who are not subscribers. Subscribe now! or Sign in to your account. Share Button Disabled Subscribe Log in Cancel Subscribe Log in Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up Subscribe Log in Search 60°F Friday, October 9th 2026 Today's e-Edition Crime and Public Safety Latest News Crime Politics Environment Science Education Health Transportation California Nation Trending: Kimberly Guilfoyle woes 10 worst airports 14 propositions explained Oak + Violet’s new chef Bay Area voter guide What to watch🎥 Breaking News South African-born jurist Navi Pillay wins Nobel Peace Prize for her work in international justice News Crime and Public Safety News News Based on facts, either observed and verified directly by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Richmond approves new surveillance camera contract, delays ALPR decision City lawmakers select new vendor in move away from Flock Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share a free article with a friend GIFT THIS ARTICLE What is article sharing? Subscribers are entitled to 10 gift sharing articles each month. These can be shared with friends and family who are not subscribers. Subscribe now! or Sign in to your account. Share Button Disabled Subscribe Log in Cancel By Sierra Lopez | slopez@bayareanewsgroup.com | Bay Area News Group PUBLISHED: October 8, 2026 at 1:05 PM PDT | UPDATED: October 9, 2026 at 5:29 AM PDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... RICHMOND — While still uncertain about the efficacy of automatic license plate readers, councilmembers again delayed adopting a new ALPR contract while allowing an agreement for drones and other surveillance cameras to move forward. In a 5-2 vote Tuesday night, the Richmond City Council renewed and expanded a contract with Axon, an Arizona-based weapons and technology manufacturer. The company already provides services to the Richmond Police Department, including body-worn cameras, virtual reality training, digital evidence storage and Tasers. Under the renewed contract, Axon will also become the city’s primary surveillance system provider, taking over CCTV and drone services from Flock Safety. Automatic license plate reader (ALPR) cameras were not included in this new agreement. Councilmembers delayed a vote on an ALPR portion of the contract for the second time Tuesday — the first time was late last month — again citing concerns about how the city’s data will be protected and secured and an interest in learning more about how effective the cameras are at preventing and solving crime. Related Articles Judge dismisses constitutional challenge to San Jose license plate readers As residents rally against Flock cameras, San Jose leaders instruct staff to propose potential guardrails After public outcry Monterey County to remove 63 Flock cameras How effective are license plate readers? One Bay Area city wants to know San Jose pushes for tighter controls on Flock camera data after police officer abuse Lawmakers requested the ALPR contract be brought back at a future meeting for further review. “It will be the best step for the city of Richmond to take the bold approach of looking into a secure solution for the data,” Councilmember Soheila Bana said during the Tuesday meeting. “It’s not easy. It’s very difficult. It may be expensive. It may take time. But we have the courage and intention to do that.” Richmond has been searching for a new ALPR vendor since February after Richmond Police Chief Tim Simmons disabled Flock’s cameras late last year out of concern for data security. The department had been using Flock’s “national lookup” feature that allows agencies to search license plate data from other agencies using the company’s system. Simmons said the department used the feature to search outside the city’s data but were not informed by Flock that enabling “national lookup” also allowed outside agencies to access Richmond’s data. Richmond did appear in other agency’s queries, but there’s no evidence that data was pulled or used, he noted. Flock has provided ALPR cameras to the city since 2023. What started out as a contract for 30 ALPR cameras evolved into a $2 million agreement for more than 150 cameras, including 110 automatic license plate readers; 60 closed-circuit televisions; a fixed surveillance camera system; and a drone that provides aerial coverage during emergencies. Councilmembers decided in March to turn the license plate readers back on and to extend its contract with Flock through the end of the year, with the understanding that a replacement vendor would be selected by then. ALPR camera systems have received strong pushback from communities, activists and politicians nationwide across political parties after stories of data abuse have come to light. Officers have been accused of using ALPR data to stalk other people and inaccurately accuse people of crimes. In Richmond, activists and residents have also raised concerns about the data being used for mass deportation operations or tracking people seeking abortions who come from states where the medical treatment is illegal. Hundreds of cities nationwide have either dropped or are reviewing their contracts with Flock over similar concerns. Locally, those jurisdictions include Mountain View, San Jose, Antioch, Hayward and the counties of Santa Clara and Alameda. “The benefits are unproven and the harms are documented,” Sarah Hamid, director of strategic campaigns for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital civil liberties watchdog, said during a presentation to the council Tuesday. “Given how pervasive, sprawling and ungovernable ALPR sharing networks have become, the only feature update we can truly rely on to protect people’s safety and rights is no network at all.” Others argued during the meeting that the ALPR camera system is an invaluable tool that has helped an understaffed Richmond Police Department solve crime. Ben Therriault, the president of the Richmond Police Officers Association, said arguments about how the cameras can be used to harm Black and Brown communities is “fear-mongering” and “hysteria” that doesn’t accurately represent how the system is used locally. “We need to move forward so that we can have another avenue to help victims of crime in this city,” he said. “That’s what everyone keeps forgetting. And it just really shows where people’s priorities are. We don’t take care of victims of crime in the city.” The council was supposed to consider a $20,000 contract amendment with Police Strategies LLC for ALPR data analysis, but ran out of time Tuesday before they could take a vote. The item had been on the consent calendar, a section of the agenda where noncontroversial items can be approved in one motion, but it was pulled for further discussion. The issue will now be on the next council meeting agenda. Simmons acknowledged that real system violations have fueled the public’s concern about ALPR cameras, and committed to holding Richmond police officers accountable if he discovers any instances of abuse. “Any technology tool can be abused and can be misused,” Simmons said. “If that happened here in Richmond, I’ll walk the case into the DA’s office myself. That is a violation of law and we will not stand for that in Richmond PD.” Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share a free article with a friend GIFT THIS ARTICLE What is article sharing? Subscribers are entitled to 10 gift sharing articles each month. These can be shared with friends and family who are not subscribers. Subscribe now! or Sign in to your account. Share Button Disabled Subscribe Log in Cancel More From Our Newsroom RevContent Feed Most Popular More in Crime and Public Safety Contractor who appeared on HGTV dies while hiking in Sequoia National Park ‘Baby Angelita’ case: Officials believe 14-year-old mother was driving when car ran over her baby These South Bay teens went to court. Hundreds of students followed. Fatal Monte Sereno house fire classified as accidental 2026 October 8 News Alerts Email Newsletters Today’s e-Edition Mobile Apps Site Map Marketplace Place an Obituary Place a Real Estate Ad Lottery Contact Us Digital Access FAQ Join our Team Special Sections Sponsor a Group Get Sponsored Access Privacy Policy Accessibility Post Your Local Event Policies and Standards Advertise With Us Network Advertising Daily Ads Place a Legal Notice Public Notices Subscribe Member Services Manage Subscriptions The Mercury News Store Archive Search Reprints Subscribe Now Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Powered by WordPress.com VIP Copyright 2026 The Mercury News. All rights reserved. The use of any content on this website for the purpose of training artificial intelligence systems, algorithms, machine learning models, text and data mining, or similar use is strictly prohibited without explicit written consent. Close word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1