Letters: Alameda County sheriff falls short on Flock transparency Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 73°F Friday, September 11th 2026 Today's e-Edition Home Page News News Latest Headlines Crime and Public Safety California News National News World News Politics Education Environment Science Health Transportation Weather Local Bay Area San Jose Santa Clara County Peninsula San Mateo County Alameda County Santa Cruz County Sal Pizarro Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Opinion Opinion Editorials Opinion Columnists Letters to the Editor Commentary Cartoons Election Endorsements Sports Sports San Francisco 49ers San Francisco Giants Golden State Warriors Raiders Athletics San Jose Sharks San Jose Earthquakes Bay FC College Sports Wilner Hotline High School Sports Other Sports Sports Columnists Sports Blogs Golden State Valkyries Things To Do Entertainment Readers Choice Things To Do Restaurants, Food and Drink Celebrities TV Streaming Movies Music Theater Lifestyle Cannabis Advice Travel Pets and Animals Comics Puzzles and Games Horoscopes Event Calendar Business Business Housing Economy Technology Best Reviews SiliconValley.com Marketplace Branded Content Partner Content BayArea.com Real Estate BestReviews Branded Content Paid Content by Brandpoint Subscribe Advertise Log In Logout Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up Letters to the Editor | Letters: Alameda County sheriff falls short on… Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Subscribe Log In Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up Subscribe Log In Search 73°F Friday, September 11th 2026 Today's e-Edition Letters to the Editor Editorials Opinion Columnists Letters Commentary Endorsements Trending: 49ers report card SJ parking rate increase Death of Aurora Williams License plate switch SJ’s 19th homicide Papa rehired by KNBR Breaking News More evacuation warnings, road closures for wind-driven wildfire outside Mendocino National Forest Opinion Letters to the Editor Letters Letters Represent the opinion of the letter writers. Letters: Alameda County sheriff falls short on Flock transparency Also: Unfair burden | Police work | Mail-in ballots | Low-income housing. East Bay Times reader letters to the editor for Sept. 10, 2026. Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X By Letters To The Editor PUBLISHED: September 9, 2026 at 4:30 PM PDT | UPDATED: September 10, 2026 at 4:25 AM PDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... Submit your letter to the editor via this form . Read more Letters to the Editor . Sheriff falls short on Flock transparency Re: “ Unregulated cameras face vigilante attacks ” (Page A11, Sept 5). Thank you for the op-ed detailing abuses of surveillance cameras in American communities. Accurately describing them as “a tool of mass, indiscriminate surveillance,” Catherine Crump reports the State Auditor found that of 320 million camera images stored by the Los Angeles Police Department, 99.9% were of vehicles not on a “hot list” (suspected of involvement in a crime). Related Articles Letters: Without accountability, transit tax is another empty promise Letters: The ultra-rich are driving state’s affordability crisis Letters: The question we should ask is, ‘Why so few affordable homes?’ Letters: Reject Howard Jarvis Taxpayers’ hypocrisy, vote against Prop. 43 Letters: Cal and Stanford should quit the college football circus Alameda County Sheriff Yesenia Sanchez, sworn to uphold the law, has admitted violations of state law occurred when Flock surveillance images were shared with federal agencies. She claims to be completely transparent, but her Flock camera “ Transparency Portal ,” when selected, flashes a warning that you are leaving the Sheriff’s website and that they are “not responsible for the content of external sites.” You are then sent to a Flock public relations page touting its mass surveillance system. So much for transparency. Bob Britton Castro Valley There is more to police work than public sees This past summer, I completed a full, in-person internship with the Hayward Police Department’s Records and Property Bureau. During that time, I worked alongside staff and conducted firsthand interviews and research with people across Records, youth diversion, Youth & Family Services, counseling and mental-health response programs. I entered the internship expecting to learn mostly about traditional policing. Instead, I found an entire side of public safety that receives far less attention: records staff processing thousands of reports, counselors supporting families and students, youth coordinators helping young people find a second chance and clinicians connecting people in crisis with services. Akshara Krishnan Dublin Attacks on mail-in voting should raise outrage Americans should be outraged by the conservative majority of the United States Supreme Court giving the green light to President Trump’s executive order, which will restrict mail-in voting. This is personal because for several years, I have used mail-in voting for issues such as defending the way of life of Indigenous peoples and preserving clean water. I felt violated when Trump and the conservative majority of the United States Supreme Court want to deny me my right to participate in the democratic process. Billy Trice Jr. Oakland Save low-income homes for low-income workers Re: “ High earners, low rents: 1 in 8 pay below market ” (Page A1, Sept. 6). What is happening? How can any entity provide well below rental market value for a property and not hold the tenant to the lease agreement of “low income”? I am dumbfounded that in a state where most public service workers, most food service workers, most college students, most elderly, most disabled … everyone barely surviving would be the victims, yes victims, of the scam that doesn’t require proof of low income every year. To indicate, as in the article, that they ”would hope” that when renters earned more they would relinquish the apartment to provide housing to someone in need is absurd. Who are these people scamming the innocent taxpayer? Sheryl Perez Novato Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Most Popular Most Popular Milpitas woman killed 2 of her friends the same day, one in hit-and-run, police say Milpitas woman killed 2 of her friends the same day, one in hit-and-run, police say Dolly Parton paid for her longtime driver’s gender-affirming care: She was ‘a very nice lady’ Dolly Parton paid for her longtime driver's gender-affirming care: She was 'a very nice lady' Dear Abby: I want to know how my friend died. My letter to his widow was returned. Dear Abby: I want to know how my friend died. My letter to his widow was returned. Do I need Netflix to watch the 49ers vs. Rams season opener? Do I need Netflix to watch the 49ers vs. Rams season opener? Harriette Cole: Our date went great. Then I found out where he lives. Harriette Cole: Our date went great. Then I found out where he lives. El Niño: Why chances are increasing for lots of rain this winter in the Bay Area and across California El Niño: Why chances are increasing for lots of rain this winter in the Bay Area and across California A new California law will ban watering decorative grass, even in non-drought years, starting Jan. 1 A new California law will ban watering decorative grass, even in non-drought years, starting Jan. 1 Harriette Cole: Hey, Mr. Work Van, this is why there’s no second date Harriette Cole: Hey, Mr. Work Van, this is why there's no second date Medical examiner rules 8-year-old San Jose girl’s death a homicide, cites medical neglect Medical examiner rules 8-year-old San Jose girl’s death a homicide, cites medical neglect California has run out of license plate numbers. Here’s what happens now. California has run out of license plate numbers. Here's what happens now. More in Letters to the Editor Letters: Without accountability, transit tax is another empty promise Letters: The ultra-rich are driving state’s affordability crisis Letters: The question we should ask is, ‘Why so few affordable homes?’ Letters: Reject Howard Jarvis Taxpayers’ hypocrisy, vote against Prop. 43 2026 September 9 News Alerts Email Newsletters Today’s e-Edition Mobile Apps Site Map Marketplace Place an Obituary Place a Real Estate Ad Lottery Contact Us Digital Access FAQ Join our Team Special Sections Sponsor a Group Get Sponsored Access Privacy Policy Accessibility Post Your Local Event Policies and Standards Advertise With Us Network Advertising Daily Ads Place a Legal Notice Public Notices Subscribe Member Services Manage Subscriptions The Mercury News Store Archive Search Reprints Subscribe Now Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Powered by WordPress.com VIP Copyright 2026 The Mercury News. All rights reserved. The use of any content on this website for the purpose of training artificial intelligence systems, algorithms, machine learning models, text and data mining, or similar use is strictly prohibited without explicit written consent. Close