Los Angeles PD ends agreement with Flock cameras, citing privacy, data concerns – The Mercury News Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 73°F Friday, September 11th 2026 Today's e-Edition Home Page News News Latest Headlines Crime and Public Safety California News National News World News Politics Education Environment Science Health Transportation Weather Local Bay Area San Jose Santa Clara County Peninsula San Mateo County Alameda County Santa Cruz County Sal Pizarro Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Opinion Opinion Editorials Opinion Columnists Letters to the Editor Commentary Cartoons Election Endorsements Sports Sports San Francisco 49ers San Francisco Giants Golden State Warriors Raiders Athletics San Jose Sharks San Jose Earthquakes Bay FC College Sports Wilner Hotline High School Sports Other Sports Sports Columnists Sports Blogs Golden State Valkyries Things To Do Entertainment Readers Choice Things To Do Restaurants, Food and Drink Celebrities TV Streaming Movies Music Theater Lifestyle Cannabis Advice Travel Pets and Animals Comics Puzzles and Games Horoscopes Event Calendar Business Business Housing Economy Technology Best Reviews SiliconValley.com Marketplace Branded Content Partner Content BayArea.com Real Estate BestReviews Branded Content Paid Content by Brandpoint Subscribe Advertise Log In Logout Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up Crime and Public Safety | Los Angeles PD ends agreement with Flock… Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Subscribe Log In Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up Subscribe Log In Search 73°F Friday, September 11th 2026 Today's e-Edition Crime and Public Safety Latest News Crime Politics Environment Science Education Health Transportation California Nation Trending: 49ers report card SJ parking rate increase Death of Aurora Williams License plate switch SJ’s 19th homicide Papa rehired by KNBR Breaking News More evacuation warnings, road closures for wind-driven wildfire outside Mendocino National Forest News Crime and Public Safety News News Based on facts, either observed and verified directly by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Los Angeles PD ends agreement with Flock cameras, citing privacy, data concerns Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X By Nathaniel Percy | npercy@scng.com | Southern California News Group PUBLISHED: July 14, 2026 at 6:20 AM PDT | UPDATED: July 14, 2026 at 6:53 AM PDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... The Los Angeles Police Department, citing privacy and data ownership concerns, has ended its agreement to use Flock Safety license plate readers, authorities said Monday, July 13. In 2023, the department signed a three-year agreement with the Atlanta-based company to install 138 of its pole-mounted cameras within the city, according to a report to be discussed at a Tuesday Board of Police Commissioners meeting. That agreement expired Saturday, July 11. RELATED: Alameda County extends Flock Safety contract amid worries over surveillance network Those cameras capture images of vehicles and license plates on roadways. In a brief statement, a spokeswoman with the department confirmed that it did not renew the agreement with Flock Safety. “We wanted to address some of the civil liberty and civil rights concerns and ensure that there is clarity over the terms regarding privacy, data ownership and security,” read the statement, sent by LAPD Officer Norma Eisenman. Dean Gialamas, the department’s chief information officer, told ABC Los Angeles that the department wants stronger contractual protections regarding ownership and control of data collected by Flock cameras and that the department would suspend use of Flock’s system until the issues were resolved. Gialamas was not made available by the department for an interview on Monday. The Los Angeles Police Department’s Board of Police Commissioners was scheduled to hear from the department about its use of Flock Safety equipment at a meeting Tuesday. Police were continuing discussions with Flock Safety about revising the agreement, with LAPD seeking updated language addressing privacy and data storage to be included in the new contract. Flock Safety officials, in a statement, said the decision came as a surprise. “LAPD has used license plate reader technology for years and continues to rely on it today,” the statement read. “Flock’s position has been simple: if this technology is going to be used, it should be used with strong privacy protections, strict auditability, and clear oversight.” The company said it has been working with LAPD to ensure that use of the technology also included clear accountability and appropriate limits around data access. They were “confident that through ongoing discussions with LAPD, we can clear up the current misconceptions that led to Friday’s disappointing pause.” Motorola Solutions and Axon Enterprise also provide ALPR technology to the LAPD. But public concerns over the department’s use of Flock cameras emerged after an October 2025 report by the University of Washington’s Center for Human Rights that said Flock had tested an information-sharing program that allowed federal agencies to access license plate data collected by local agencies without knowledge or consent from those agencies. Other jurisdictions, including South Pasadena, Mountain View and Santa Cruz in California as well as Hillsborough, North Carolina, and Flagstaff, Arizona, have either ended or suspended their relationships with Flock, according to a report by the Office of Inspector General, which was to be discussed at Tuesday’s meeting. That report, in part, recommended that the LAPD suspend installation of new ALPR cameras and enter into no new ALPR-related contracts until the city hears from the public and conducts a broader reassessment of vendors and data-sharing practices. Police say the devices help officers track suspects involved in crimes. The department has said it does not use Flock’s cameras to help U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. “The use is strictly for law enforcement purposes, and it is inherently not for any immigration purposes,” Gialamas told ABC Los Angeles. “So the cameras can be searched. If there’s criminal activity, there needs to be an active case, users have to be registered in the system, trained in the system.” Before the commissioners’ meeting Tuesday morning, members of the Stop LAPD Spying Coalition plan to rally outside LAPD headquarters to demand the department permanently end its use of ALPR technology. Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Most Popular Most Popular Milpitas woman killed 2 of her friends the same day, one in hit-and-run, police say Milpitas woman killed 2 of her friends the same day, one in hit-and-run, police say Dolly Parton paid for her longtime driver’s gender-affirming care: She was ‘a very nice lady’ Dolly Parton paid for her longtime driver's gender-affirming care: She was 'a very nice lady' Dear Abby: I want to know how my friend died. My letter to his widow was returned. Dear Abby: I want to know how my friend died. My letter to his widow was returned. Do I need Netflix to watch the 49ers vs. Rams season opener? Do I need Netflix to watch the 49ers vs. Rams season opener? Harriette Cole: Our date went great. Then I found out where he lives. Harriette Cole: Our date went great. Then I found out where he lives. El Niño: Why chances are increasing for lots of rain this winter in the Bay Area and across California El Niño: Why chances are increasing for lots of rain this winter in the Bay Area and across California A new California law will ban watering decorative grass, even in non-drought years, starting Jan. 1 A new California law will ban watering decorative grass, even in non-drought years, starting Jan. 1 Harriette Cole: Hey, Mr. Work Van, this is why there’s no second date Harriette Cole: Hey, Mr. Work Van, this is why there's no second date Medical examiner rules 8-year-old San Jose girl’s death a homicide, cites medical neglect Medical examiner rules 8-year-old San Jose girl’s death a homicide, cites medical neglect California has run out of license plate numbers. Here’s what happens now. California has run out of license plate numbers. Here's what happens now. More in Crime and Public Safety Teen boy suffers life-threatening injuries in Union City crash ‘Literally our defense’: Key witness’ past debated ahead of former Oakland mayor’s corruption trial Pedestrian killed, suspect arrested in San Jose hit-and-run San Jose police officer fired after using Flock database to track cousin’s domestic violence accuser 2026 July 14 News Alerts Email Newsletters Today’s e-Edition Mobile Apps Site Map Marketplace Place an Obituary Place a Real Estate Ad Lottery Contact Us Digital Access FAQ Join our Team Special Sections Sponsor a Group Get Sponsored Access Privacy Policy Accessibility Post Your Local Event Policies and Standards Advertise With Us Network Advertising Daily Ads Place a Legal Notice Public Notices Subscribe Member Services Manage Subscriptions The Mercury News Store Archive Search Reprints Subscribe Now Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Powered by WordPress.com VIP Copyright 2026 The Mercury News. All rights reserved. The use of any content on this website for the purpose of training artificial intelligence systems, algorithms, machine learning models, text and data mining, or similar use is strictly prohibited without explicit written consent. Close