Opinion: Of course Flock cameras are being attacked. Congress has failed to regulate them. Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 73°F Friday, September 11th 2026 Today's e-Edition Home Page News News Latest Headlines Crime and Public Safety California News National News World News Politics Education Environment Science Health Transportation Weather Local Bay Area San Jose Santa Clara County Peninsula San Mateo County Alameda County Santa Cruz County Sal Pizarro Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Opinion Opinion Editorials Opinion Columnists Letters to the Editor Commentary Cartoons Election Endorsements Sports Sports San Francisco 49ers San Francisco Giants Golden State Warriors Raiders Athletics San Jose Sharks San Jose Earthquakes Bay FC College Sports Wilner Hotline High School Sports Other Sports Sports Columnists Sports Blogs Golden State Valkyries Things To Do Entertainment Readers Choice Things To Do Restaurants, Food and Drink Celebrities TV Streaming Movies Music Theater Lifestyle Cannabis Advice Travel Pets and Animals Comics Puzzles and Games Horoscopes Event Calendar Business Business Housing Economy Technology Best Reviews SiliconValley.com Marketplace Branded Content Partner Content BayArea.com Real Estate BestReviews Branded Content Paid Content by Brandpoint Subscribe Advertise Log In Logout Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up Opinion Columnists | Opinion: Of course Flock cameras are being… Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Subscribe Log In Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up Subscribe Loading... Search 73°F Friday, September 11th 2026 Today's e-Edition Opinion Columnists Editorials Opinion Columnists Letters Commentary Endorsements Trending: 49ers report card SJ parking rate increase Death of Aurora Williams License plate switch SJ’s 19th homicide Papa rehired by KNBR Breaking News More evacuation warnings, road closures for wind-driven wildfire outside Mendocino National Forest Opinion Opinion Columnists Opinion Columnist Opinion Columnist Represents the opinion of the author who is either a paid columnist or an unpaid guest columnist. Opinion: Of course Flock cameras are being attacked. Congress has failed to regulate them. Law enforcement officials have built an expansive monitoring grid without securing approval from local voters Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Chip Somodevilla — Getty Images North America/TNS Traffic flows past an Axon brand automatic license plate reader camera in the median of 16th Street near the border of Maryland and the District of Columbia on Aug. 19, in Silver Spring, Maryland. By Catherine Crump | PUBLISHED: September 5, 2026 at 3:15 AM PDT | UPDATED: September 8, 2026 at 10:41 AM PDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... Vigilantes are disabling Flock cameras in at least three dozen states , and while I don’t condone property damage, I understand the outrage. The American people did not ask for a sprawling nationwide surveillance apparatus operated in secret and subject to few rules. Our elected representatives did not vote for this. These systems’ potential for abuse is vast, and law enforcement’s treatment of the data they generate has been careless. Foisting these systems on the public is Silicon Valley’s now-familiar “move fast and break things” arrogance — applied, this time, to the norms of democratic governance. Flock Safety is just one of several automated license plate reader camera systems, although it has quickly come to dominate the market. The company estimates 5,000 law enforcement agencies use its products — although the Los Angeles Police Department no longer numbers among them, having stopped working with Flock in July because of privacy concerns. These systems photograph every passing car, convert the license plate number to machine-readable text, and store and geotag the image. Law enforcement agents can then look up plates or even identify all plates that were in a particular location at a specific time. Establish a dense enough network of cameras and it becomes possible to track people through their daily lives. Related Articles San Jose police officer fired after using Flock database to track cousin’s domestic violence accuser Carter: America’s surveillance problem is much bigger than Flock One East Bay city mistakenly approved an HOA’s Flock surveillance cameras. Now it wants them removed. Flock announces privacy changes as Bay Area cities split over license plate cameras Amid public backlash, Flock announces platform changes A key fact: These systems don’t just capture images of people wanted for a crime. They store photos of everyone. It’s a tool of mass, indiscriminate surveillance. In 2020, a California State Auditor report found that of the 320 million images the Los Angeles Police Department had stored, 99.9% were of vehicles that were not on a hot list. I’m not opposed to license plate readers. Used well, they can help solve crimes and improve public safety by flagging stolen cars or vehicles associated with people wanted for felonies. But they’re also vulnerable to abuse. After 9/11, New York police drove license-plate-reader-equipped cars past mosques to record worshippers’ vehicles. In 2015 two federal agencies planned to use them at gun shows . This May, a Texas sheriff’s office searched 83,000 cameras for a woman who had an abortion . Last year, a privacy advocacy group combing through audit logs revealed that California police were sharing data with ICE — in violation of state law. And individual officers have abused these systems, including a Georgia police chief who looked up the plates of his ex-girlfriend and her daughter some 600 times. Too many law enforcement agencies have been careless with the data of Americans who are not under investigation. Any competent auditing system would flag an officer searching for the same plate hundreds of times, as happened in Georgia. If a small band of volunteers can figure out that California police and sheriffs are violating state law, surely these agencies can develop their own internal audit mechanisms. But it’s hard to believe they have the will to do so: When the California state auditor reviewed the Los Angeles Police Department for a 2020 report, it found no policy on automated plate readers — despite state law having required one for four years by that point. Until recently, elected officials mostly haven’t scrutinized these systems. They should be having a real debate about the place of this technology in our communities. Should plate readers be installed at all? How long should data be stored if it isn’t related to someone suspected of criminal activity? Should law enforcement be permitted to query the data for all crimes, or only serious ones? Should law enforcement have to obtain a warrant to query the database? What shouldn’t be happening is a de facto nationwide private surveillance system cobbled together without any democratic mandate. Some city councils may have approved plate readers locally, but the whole is greater than the sum of its parts — and elected officials have not been voting on whether to build a vast nationwide database. One piece of good news is that there are glimmers of bipartisan concern about abuse of license plate readers. Perhaps this is a good opportunity for Congress to show us it can still legislate — and, indeed, Republican Reps. Tim Burchett and Thomas Massie have each introduced legislation to regulate plate readers. Among states with rules, the policies vary widely: Utah requires most plate data to be deleted after nine months, New Hampshire after just three minutes. California is weighing a different approach, with no deletion mandate but with a warrant required to search most data older than 75 days. The federal government taking any of these approaches would be better than the status quo. Flock, clearly feeling the pressure, has thrown privacy advocates a bone by cutting its default storage period from 30 days to seven (though this is just a default, not a requirement). But this is not good enough. Our location privacy shouldn’t depend upon what one company feels they can get away with before people start sabotaging their technology. We need laws setting retention limits. It is an affront to American ideals of autonomy and civil liberties for law enforcement to amass heaps of location data on people it has no reason to suspect of anything. If Congress doesn’t act, privacy vigilantes will keep sawing down license plate readers — and they’ll have some justification to say they had no other option. Congress should prove them wrong. Catherine Crump is a professor at UC Berkeley School of Law and director of the Samuelson Law, Technology & Public Policy Clinic. ©2026 Los Angeles Times. Distributed by Tribune Content Agency. Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Most Popular Most Popular Milpitas woman killed 2 of her friends the same day, one in hit-and-run, police say Milpitas woman killed 2 of her friends the same day, one in hit-and-run, police say Dolly Parton paid for her longtime driver’s gender-affirming care: She was ‘a very nice lady’ Dolly Parton paid for her longtime driver's gender-affirming care: She was 'a very nice lady' Dear Abby: I want to know how my friend died. My letter to his widow was returned. Dear Abby: I want to know how my friend died. My letter to his widow was returned. Do I need Netflix to watch the 49ers vs. Rams season opener? Do I need Netflix to watch the 49ers vs. Rams season opener? Harriette Cole: Our date went great. Then I found out where he lives. Harriette Cole: Our date went great. Then I found out where he lives. El Niño: Why chances are increasing for lots of rain this winter in the Bay Area and across California El Niño: Why chances are increasing for lots of rain this winter in the Bay Area and across California A new California law will ban watering decorative grass, even in non-drought years, starting Jan. 1 A new California law will ban watering decorative grass, even in non-drought years, starting Jan. 1 Harriette Cole: Hey, Mr. Work Van, this is why there’s no second date Harriette Cole: Hey, Mr. Work Van, this is why there's no second date Medical examiner rules 8-year-old San Jose girl’s death a homicide, cites medical neglect Medical examiner rules 8-year-old San Jose girl’s death a homicide, cites medical neglect California has run out of license plate numbers. Here’s what happens now. California has run out of license plate numbers. Here's what happens now. More in Opinion Columnists Opinion: Sept. 11 hasn’t yet found its meaning Stephens: 25 years after 9/11, life has proved stronger than death Hiltzik: Medicare for All is back on the political front burner. A Democratic majority could pass it. Opinion: At $40 trillion in debt, Washington is stealing from younger generations 2026 September 5 News Alerts Email Newsletters Today’s e-Edition Mobile Apps Site Map Marketplace Place an Obituary Place a Real Estate Ad Lottery Contact Us Digital Access FAQ Join our Team Special Sections Sponsor a Group Get Sponsored Access Privacy Policy Accessibility Post Your Local Event Policies and Standards Advertise With Us Network Advertising Daily Ads Place a Legal Notice Public Notices Subscribe Member Services Manage Subscriptions The Mercury News Store Archive Search Reprints Subscribe Now Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Powered by WordPress.com VIP Copyright 2026 The Mercury News. All rights reserved. The use of any content on this website for the purpose of training artificial intelligence systems, algorithms, machine learning models, text and data mining, or similar use is strictly prohibited without explicit written consent. Close