Carter: America’s surveillance problem is much bigger than Flock Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 73°F Friday, September 11th 2026 Today's e-Edition Home Page News News Latest Headlines Crime and Public Safety California News National News World News Politics Education Environment Science Health Transportation Weather Local Bay Area San Jose Santa Clara County Peninsula San Mateo County Alameda County Santa Cruz County Sal Pizarro Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Opinion Opinion Editorials Opinion Columnists Letters to the Editor Commentary Cartoons Election Endorsements Sports Sports San Francisco 49ers San Francisco Giants Golden State Warriors Raiders Athletics San Jose Sharks San Jose Earthquakes Bay FC College Sports Wilner Hotline High School Sports Other Sports Sports Columnists Sports Blogs Golden State Valkyries Things To Do Entertainment Readers Choice Things To Do Restaurants, Food and Drink Celebrities TV Streaming Movies Music Theater Lifestyle Cannabis Advice Travel Pets and Animals Comics Puzzles and Games Horoscopes Event Calendar Business Business Housing Economy Technology Best Reviews SiliconValley.com Marketplace Branded Content Partner Content BayArea.com Real Estate BestReviews Branded Content Paid Content by Brandpoint Subscribe Advertise Log in Logout Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up Opinion Columnists | Carter: America’s surveillance problem is… Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share a free article with a friend GIFT THIS ARTICLE What is article sharing? Subscribers are entitled to 10 gift sharing articles each month. These can be shared with friends and family who are not subscribers. Subscribe now! or Sign in to your account. Share Button Disabled Subscribe Log in Cancel Subscribe Log in Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up Subscribe Log in Search 73°F Friday, September 11th 2026 Today's e-Edition Opinion Columnists Editorials Opinion Columnists Letters Commentary Endorsements Trending: 49ers report card SJ parking rate increase Death of Aurora Williams License plate switch SJ’s 19th homicide Papa rehired by KNBR Breaking News More evacuation warnings, road closures for wind-driven wildfire outside Mendocino National Forest Opinion Opinion Columnists Opinion, Opinion Columnist Opinion, Opinion Columnist Advocates for ideas and draws conclusions based on the author/producer’s interpretation of facts and data., Represents the opinion of the author who is either a paid columnist or an unpaid guest columnist. Carter: America’s surveillance problem is much bigger than Flock Tracking systems keep expanding, and regulation alone will never stop the government from mining public data Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share a free article with a friend GIFT THIS ARTICLE What is article sharing? Subscribers are entitled to 10 gift sharing articles each month. These can be shared with friends and family who are not subscribers. Subscribe now! or Sign in to your account. Share Button Disabled Subscribe Log in Cancel The Oakland City Council voted 7-1 in December to award Flock Safety a new contract to maintain an existing network of 300 cameras in the city. By Stephen L. Carter PUBLISHED: August 19, 2026 at 2:45 AM PDT | UPDATED: August 19, 2026 at 4:14 AM PDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... “You are being watched” was the tagline that opened every episode of the television series Person of Interest, which ran from 2011 to 2016 and already feels ancient. The conceit of the show was that the good guys, aided by a friendly AI, could use information from a sea of cameras and microphones to stop crimes before they happened. That fictional world comes to mind in light of the controversy surrounding Flock Safety, a company that has installed some 120,000 cameras in cities and towns across the U.S. Flock’s automatic license plate recognition system identifies passing cars and stores their identifying details (make, model, a Mets bumper sticker, a cracked rear window) in a searchable database. The utility to law enforcement is obvious. But after years of strong growth, the company is facing a serious backlash. Dozens of jurisdictions have canceled their contracts with Flock since 2025. Some are angry that Flock has been used for immigration enforcement; others point to examples of law enforcement officers abusing the system. The ACLU has published a model resolution that city governments can use to end their relationship with Flock. Then there’s DeFlock, a crowdsourced effort to map the locations of as many license plate readers as possible. And back in February, Amazon publicly canceled a plan to link its Ring cameras with Flock’s systems. Related Articles San Jose police officer fired after using Flock database to track cousin’s domestic violence accuser Opinion: Of course Flock cameras are being attacked. Congress has failed to regulate them. One East Bay city mistakenly approved an HOA’s Flock surveillance cameras. Now it wants them removed. Flock announces privacy changes as Bay Area cities split over license plate cameras Amid public backlash, Flock announces platform changes My libertarian heart is always warmed when there are signs, however faint, that the future might contain less surveillance rather than more. And critics of Flock’s misuse are right to be alarmed. But Flock is only part of a much bigger problem. The more fundamental mistake was letting surveillance become a ubiquitous part of American life. It’s hard to imagine now, but in the 19th century, when cameras were young, it was considered discourteous to take a person’s picture without permission. Now, once we’ve exited our homes, our images are being recorded constantly. In cities and suburbs and, increasingly, rural areas, cameras along the road are accepted as a fact of life. That’s a problem. In a democracy, we ought to have the right not simply to privacy but to anonymity — to go through the ordinary occupations of daily life without being tracked and surveilled. To be seen by real people — fellow walkers, fellow drivers — is one thing; to be constantly recorded is something else entirely. It’s almost funny to see so many public officials who now profess to having had no idea that installing cameras all over their cities and towns would lead to mass surveillance. The cameras are mass surveillance. They capture images, which the AI then helpfully labels, and — surprise, surprise! — law enforcement suddenly wants to sift through those images. That’s the heart of the problem. A traffic camera might seem innocuous, a device to discourage running red lights. A security camera up on the light pole might seem insignificant, a tool for fighting crime. A license plate reader might seem just a way of keeping track of cars in case a villain happens along. But combine enough bits of data, and the government can create what the Supreme Court condemned just this past June in its decision restricting the use of geofencing: “a virtual panopticon with which to scrutinize its citizens’ activities.” Privacy advocates are calling for tighter controls before authorities can query Flock’s database, perhaps even a warrant requirement. Flock itself now audits law enforcement requests, and some of the officers who have been arrested for misusing it were, the company says, caught through its efforts. But no government will ever fully resist the temptation to mine whatever data is gathered. And in the long run, the Fourth Amendment will never keep up with technology. “The Machine is everywhere,” Harold Finch of Person of Interest told his associate John Reese way back in the horse-and-buggy era of 2011. “Watching us with 10,000 eyes. Listening with a million ears.” The capital M referred to a particular AI system, which Finch had designed. But the eyes and ears didn’t belong to the Machine. They were just the background sounds and images that are constantly being recorded. The Machine was fiction. The constant watching and listening are real. That’s why the true issue isn’t just Flock. It isn’t ICE or a few bad cops. The problem is the government’s growing obsession with keeping a constant eye on those it exists to serve. Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg Opinion columnist and a professor of law at Yale University. ©2026 Bloomberg. Distributed by Tribune Content Agency. Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share a free article with a friend GIFT THIS ARTICLE What is article sharing? Subscribers are entitled to 10 gift sharing articles each month. These can be shared with friends and family who are not subscribers. Subscribe now! or Sign in to your account. Share Button Disabled Subscribe Log in Cancel More From Our Newsroom Most Popular More in Opinion Columnists Opinion: Sept. 11 hasn’t yet found its meaning Stephens: 25 years after 9/11, life has proved stronger than death Hiltzik: Medicare for All is back on the political front burner. A Democratic majority could pass it. Opinion: At $40 trillion in debt, Washington is stealing from younger generations 2026 August 19 News Alerts Email Newsletters Today’s e-Edition Mobile Apps Site Map Marketplace Place an Obituary Place a Real Estate Ad Lottery Contact Us Digital Access FAQ Join our Team Special Sections Sponsor a Group Get Sponsored Access Privacy Policy Accessibility Post Your Local Event Policies and Standards Advertise With Us Network Advertising Daily Ads Place a Legal Notice Public Notices Subscribe Member Services Manage Subscriptions The Mercury News Store Archive Search Reprints Subscribe Now Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Powered by WordPress.com VIP Copyright 2026 The Mercury News. All rights reserved. The use of any content on this website for the purpose of training artificial intelligence systems, algorithms, machine learning models, text and data mining, or similar use is strictly prohibited without explicit written consent. Close word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 mmMwWLliI0fiflO&1 advertisement advertisement advertisement