Stanford ditches Flock cameras, hires new license plate reader firm Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 73°F Friday, September 11th 2026 Today's e-Edition Home Page News News Latest Headlines Crime and Public Safety California News National News World News Politics Education Environment Science Health Transportation Weather Local Bay Area San Jose Santa Clara County Peninsula San Mateo County Alameda County Santa Cruz County Sal Pizarro Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Opinion Opinion Editorials Opinion Columnists Letters to the Editor Commentary Cartoons Election Endorsements Sports Sports San Francisco 49ers San Francisco Giants Golden State Warriors Raiders Athletics San Jose Sharks San Jose Earthquakes Bay FC College Sports Wilner Hotline High School Sports Other Sports Sports Columnists Sports Blogs Golden State Valkyries Things To Do Entertainment Readers Choice Things To Do Restaurants, Food and Drink Celebrities TV Streaming Movies Music Theater Lifestyle Cannabis Advice Travel Pets and Animals Comics Puzzles and Games Horoscopes Event Calendar Business Business Housing Economy Technology Best Reviews SiliconValley.com Marketplace Branded Content Partner Content BayArea.com Real Estate BestReviews Branded Content Paid Content by Brandpoint Subscribe Advertise Log In Logout Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up Crime and Public Safety | Stanford ditches Flock cameras, hires new… Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Subscribe Log In Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up Subscribe Loading... Search 73°F Friday, September 11th 2026 Today's e-Edition Crime and Public Safety Latest News Crime Politics Environment Science Education Health Transportation California Nation Trending: 49ers report card SJ parking rate increase Death of Aurora Williams License plate switch SJ’s 19th homicide Papa rehired by KNBR Breaking News More evacuation warnings, road closures for wind-driven wildfire outside Mendocino National Forest News Crime and Public Safety News News Based on facts, either observed and verified directly by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Stanford ditches Flock cameras, hires new license plate reader firm Flock systems have stoked controversy elsewhere Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X (Nollyanne Delacruz/Bay Area News Group) A technian holds a Flock camera just before it was installed at King Road and Wilshire Boulevard on April 23, 2024. (Nollyanne Delacruz/Bay Area News Group) By George Avalos | gavalos@bayareanewsgroup.com | Bay Area News Group PUBLISHED: August 8, 2026 at 2:11 PM PDT | UPDATED: August 17, 2026 at 1:49 PM PDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... Stanford University has ditched its Flock camera system and hired a new license plate reader firm following controversy over who can access the images captured. The South Bay university signed a contract with Genetec Cloudrunner to provide cameras that can read license plates, collecting images its public safety department can use to investigate crimes, Stanford University said in a press release. “Unlike the Flock system, the new system is designed for use within a single institution,” said Patrick Dunkley, Stanford’s vice provost for institutional equity, access, and community. Slightly under two years ago, Stanford University installed the Flock camera system at university entrances. Stanford, at the time, said it wouldn’t share any information harvested from the Flock cameras with other police agencies. Over the past several years, concerns have emerged nationwide over Flock camera systems. Its systems, critics say, allow law enforcement to access images from other agencies via the networked license plate readers. In the new system at Stanford, the cameras will collect still images of vehicles and their license plates from campus entrances. That information will be stored in a cloud server for less than an hour, according to the university. A third party won’t be able to access the data during that time, officials said. Once the hour has elapsed, the data will be automatically uploaded to a server that only Stanford controls. The raw data will be permanently deleted from the cloud after the transfer. During the two years the Flock system was operating, Stanford used its camera network to solve various crimes, including the arrest of two serial thieves. One thief stole property from offices over several weeks. The other thief stole packages from campus. “These license plate reader cameras are an important investigative tool,” Stanford Department of Public Safety Chief Laura Wilson said. “They are just one of the ways that DPS is leveraging technology to help keep our community safe.” The university provides an annual report on how its automatic license plate reader is working. “Stanford University Department of Public Safety did not receive any formal complaints regarding the use of the … system,” the university reported last year regarding a 12-month period that ended in June 2025. Other communities have also ditched Flock over the concerns about access to the images the systems collect. In May, El Cerrito decided to terminate its Flock contract. In June, Richmond kept its Flock contract after temporarily shutting down the cameras. In March, San Jose decided to tighten the reins on its Flock cameras but kept the system operating, a decision that triggered a lawsuit against the city in federal court. In February, Mountain View scrapped its Flock cameras and decided not to replace that system with any new ones. At Stanford University, despite the termination of the Flock contract, public safety officials believe automatic license plate readers are a valuable law-enforcement tool. “Stanford University Department of Public Safety has heard from crime victims, including those who had their car or car parts stolen, or other items taken or damaged, while parked in Stanford University parking lots,” the university stated in the annual report regarding the surveillance cameras. “These victims have advocated strongly for additional cameras as a deterrent and to support investigations.” Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Most Popular Most Popular Milpitas woman killed 2 of her friends the same day, one in hit-and-run, police say Milpitas woman killed 2 of her friends the same day, one in hit-and-run, police say Dolly Parton paid for her longtime driver’s gender-affirming care: She was ‘a very nice lady’ Dolly Parton paid for her longtime driver's gender-affirming care: She was 'a very nice lady' Dear Abby: I want to know how my friend died. My letter to his widow was returned. Dear Abby: I want to know how my friend died. My letter to his widow was returned. Do I need Netflix to watch the 49ers vs. Rams season opener? Do I need Netflix to watch the 49ers vs. Rams season opener? Harriette Cole: Our date went great. Then I found out where he lives. Harriette Cole: Our date went great. Then I found out where he lives. El Niño: Why chances are increasing for lots of rain this winter in the Bay Area and across California El Niño: Why chances are increasing for lots of rain this winter in the Bay Area and across California A new California law will ban watering decorative grass, even in non-drought years, starting Jan. 1 A new California law will ban watering decorative grass, even in non-drought years, starting Jan. 1 Harriette Cole: Hey, Mr. Work Van, this is why there’s no second date Harriette Cole: Hey, Mr. Work Van, this is why there's no second date Medical examiner rules 8-year-old San Jose girl’s death a homicide, cites medical neglect Medical examiner rules 8-year-old San Jose girl’s death a homicide, cites medical neglect California has run out of license plate numbers. Here’s what happens now. California has run out of license plate numbers. Here's what happens now. More in Crime and Public Safety Teen boy suffers life-threatening injuries in Union City crash ‘Literally our defense’: Key witness’ past debated ahead of former Oakland mayor’s corruption trial Pedestrian killed, suspect arrested in San Jose hit-and-run San Jose police officer fired after using Flock database to track cousin’s domestic violence accuser 2026 August 8 News Alerts Email Newsletters Today’s e-Edition Mobile Apps Site Map Marketplace Place an Obituary Place a Real Estate Ad Lottery Contact Us Digital Access FAQ Join our Team Special Sections Sponsor a Group Get Sponsored Access Privacy Policy Accessibility Post Your Local Event Policies and Standards Advertise With Us Network Advertising Daily Ads Place a Legal Notice Public Notices Subscribe Member Services Manage Subscriptions The Mercury News Store Archive Search Reprints Subscribe Now Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Powered by WordPress.com VIP Copyright 2026 The Mercury News. All rights reserved. The use of any content on this website for the purpose of training artificial intelligence systems, algorithms, machine learning models, text and data mining, or similar use is strictly prohibited without explicit written consent. Close