Flock cameras to come down in El Cerrito – The Mercury News Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 73°F Friday, September 11th 2026 Today's e-Edition Home Page News News Latest Headlines Crime and Public Safety California News National News World News Politics Education Environment Science Health Transportation Weather Local Bay Area San Jose Santa Clara County Peninsula San Mateo County Alameda County Santa Cruz County Sal Pizarro Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Opinion Opinion Editorials Opinion Columnists Letters to the Editor Commentary Cartoons Election Endorsements Sports Sports San Francisco 49ers San Francisco Giants Golden State Warriors Raiders Athletics San Jose Sharks San Jose Earthquakes Bay FC College Sports Wilner Hotline High School Sports Other Sports Sports Columnists Sports Blogs Golden State Valkyries Things To Do Entertainment Readers Choice Things To Do Restaurants, Food and Drink Celebrities TV Streaming Movies Music Theater Lifestyle Cannabis Advice Travel Pets and Animals Comics Puzzles and Games Horoscopes Event Calendar Business Business Housing Economy Technology Best Reviews SiliconValley.com Marketplace Branded Content Partner Content BayArea.com Real Estate BestReviews Branded Content Paid Content by Brandpoint Subscribe Advertise Log In Logout Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up Crime and Public Safety | Flock cameras to come down in El Cerrito Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Subscribe Log In Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up Subscribe Loading... Search 73°F Friday, September 11th 2026 Today's e-Edition Crime and Public Safety Latest News Crime Politics Environment Science Education Health Transportation California Nation Trending: 49ers report card SJ parking rate increase Death of Aurora Williams License plate switch SJ’s 19th homicide Papa rehired by KNBR Breaking News More evacuation warnings, road closures for wind-driven wildfire outside Mendocino National Forest News Crime and Public Safety News News Based on facts, either observed and verified directly by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Flock cameras to come down in El Cerrito Police department says cameras are not currently operational Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X By Sierra Lopez | slopez@bayareanewsgroup.com | Bay Area News Group PUBLISHED: July 30, 2026 at 2:58 PM PDT | UPDATED: August 17, 2026 at 1:49 PM PDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... EL CERRITO — Amid concerns Flock Safety cameras in El Cerrito are still functioning despite officials agreeing to end a contract with the surveillance company, the police department said the cameras are not operating and will soon be coming down. In May, the City Council voted to end a three-year $315,000 agreement with Flock Safety , one of the largest surveillance technology companies in the nation. But social media videos of red lights emanating from the cameras, largely automatic license plate readers distributed across the city, raised concerns among some that footage was still being captured. In a statement Thursday , the El Cerrito Police Department said they’ve been assured by Flock Safety that the cameras have been decommissioned since June 6 and the city’s contract with the company expired. The red lights are motion activated infrared signals, Flock told the department. Infrared lights are used at night to more clearly capture license plate information, according to the Flock Safety website. Crews will begin removing the 40 Flock Safety cameras installed in the city between July 30 and Aug. 18, the department said. “We recognize the community’s interest in this matter and remain committed to keeping city staff, elected officials, and the public informed as the camera removal progresses,” the agency said. Flock Safety confirmed the status of the cameras in a statement Thursday. “El Cerrito’s cameras are not collecting images. The infrared lights are motion-triggered, but the cameras are offline. Our team is working to schedule the removal,” Flock Safety spokesperson Paris Lewbel said in a statement. Debates over the use of Flock Safety cameras and similar surveillance systems have popped up across Bay Area cities. While law enforcement agencies have argued the equipment is a helpful tool for quickly responding to and solving crimes, civilians have raised concerns about the cameras being used to assist federal immigration officials with deportation operations and for the potential misuse and abuse of the systems. Multiple federal agencies had access to El Cerrito’s license plate reader data between June 2023, when the cameras were first installed, and August 2023, when the police department took administrative control of the cameras. Agencies with access included the FBI, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, GSA OFFICE of the Inspector General and National Parks Service. The city learned of the temporary access in February following a police department audit into the use of the license plate readers. Elsewhere in the East Bay, Richmond Police Chief Tim Simmons decided in October 2025 to disable more than 150 Flock Safety cameras in the city due to privacy concerns. Per Simmons’ request, the council voted 4-3 in March to extend the contract through the end of the year , bringing the cameras back online. The cities of Oakland , Brentwood, Antioch and Oakley have voted to extend their contracts with Flock Safety, while Mountain View officials voted unanimously in February to end their use of the system. Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on X (Opens in new window) X Most Popular Most Popular Milpitas woman killed 2 of her friends the same day, one in hit-and-run, police say Milpitas woman killed 2 of her friends the same day, one in hit-and-run, police say Dolly Parton paid for her longtime driver’s gender-affirming care: She was ‘a very nice lady’ Dolly Parton paid for her longtime driver's gender-affirming care: She was 'a very nice lady' Dear Abby: I want to know how my friend died. My letter to his widow was returned. Dear Abby: I want to know how my friend died. My letter to his widow was returned. Do I need Netflix to watch the 49ers vs. Rams season opener? Do I need Netflix to watch the 49ers vs. Rams season opener? Harriette Cole: Our date went great. Then I found out where he lives. Harriette Cole: Our date went great. Then I found out where he lives. El Niño: Why chances are increasing for lots of rain this winter in the Bay Area and across California El Niño: Why chances are increasing for lots of rain this winter in the Bay Area and across California A new California law will ban watering decorative grass, even in non-drought years, starting Jan. 1 A new California law will ban watering decorative grass, even in non-drought years, starting Jan. 1 Harriette Cole: Hey, Mr. Work Van, this is why there’s no second date Harriette Cole: Hey, Mr. Work Van, this is why there's no second date Medical examiner rules 8-year-old San Jose girl’s death a homicide, cites medical neglect Medical examiner rules 8-year-old San Jose girl’s death a homicide, cites medical neglect California has run out of license plate numbers. Here’s what happens now. California has run out of license plate numbers. Here's what happens now. More in Crime and Public Safety Teen boy suffers life-threatening injuries in Union City crash ‘Literally our defense’: Key witness’ past debated ahead of former Oakland mayor’s corruption trial Pedestrian killed, suspect arrested in San Jose hit-and-run San Jose police officer fired after using Flock database to track cousin’s domestic violence accuser 2026 July 30 News Alerts Email Newsletters Today’s e-Edition Mobile Apps Site Map Marketplace Place an Obituary Place a Real Estate Ad Lottery Contact Us Digital Access FAQ Join our Team Special Sections Sponsor a Group Get Sponsored Access Privacy Policy Accessibility Post Your Local Event Policies and Standards Advertise With Us Network Advertising Daily Ads Place a Legal Notice Public Notices Subscribe Member Services Manage Subscriptions The Mercury News Store Archive Search Reprints Subscribe Now Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Powered by WordPress.com VIP Copyright 2026 The Mercury News. All rights reserved. The use of any content on this website for the purpose of training artificial intelligence systems, algorithms, machine learning models, text and data mining, or similar use is strictly prohibited without explicit written consent. Close