--- page 1 ---
Already a Sustainer?
Click here to increase now

Independent. Member-supported.
For the Pacific Northwest.
Independent.
Member-supported.
donate now
About OPB
Public media funding
2026 election guide
OPB and KMHD events
Watch
Listen
Eugene and Springfield both announce end
of Flock camera usage
By Chris Lehman (KLCC)
Dec. 6, 2025 8:21 p.m. Updated: Dec. 6, 2025 8:54 p.m.
An undated photo of a flock camera in Eugene.
Nathan Wilk / KLCC
Science Friday
STREAMING NOW

--- page 2 ---
THANKS TO OUR SPONSOR:
Become a Sponsor
The cities of Eugene and Springfield announced Friday evening that they would
discontinue the use of AI-powered license plate cameras connected to the company
called Flock Safety.
The announcements, issued in separate press releases, come after months of public
pushback. Opponents said the cameras could be used to track innocent people and put
vulnerable residents at risk of surveillance by federal agencies. Police argued the
cameras were key in solving numerous cases, including some involving violent crime.
“Effective immediately, the Eugene Police Department has ended its contract with its
current Automated License Plate Recognition (ALPR) vendor, Flock Safety,” read the
announcement from EPD, which was released at 7:20 p.m. Friday.
“The department has identified vulnerabilities and limitations that raise concerns
about the system’s ability to meet EPD’s operational needs, data security
requirements, and community expectations,” the statement continued. “After further
evaluation and internal discussion, the department has decided to discontinue the
contract.”
Related: Skamania County Sheriff’s Office to stop using controversial Flock cameras
The announcement did not specify what would happen to the cameras themselves:
just that the city’s contract with Flock Safety would be terminated. After several
months of operation, the city asked Flock to turn off the cameras in October.
Science Friday
STREAMING NOW

--- page 3 ---
THANKS TO OUR SPONSOR:
Become a Sponsor
In its announcement, the City of Springfield said the cameras — which had not been
turned on — would be “covered” soon and then removed entirely.
Springfield’s press release was issued at 8:18 p.m. Friday. It referenced the unspecified
“vulnerabilities and limitations” that were cited by Eugene police.
“Our responsibility is to safeguard both the integrity of investigative tools and the
trust our community places in us,” Springfield Deputy Chief George Crolly said in the
press release. “Given what we have learned, we do not have confidence that the
current system provides the level of control and assurance we require.”
But Springfield Police did not rule out using ALPR technology in the future.
“ALPR remains a valuable tool for modern law enforcement,” said Springfield Police
Chief Jami Resch in the press release. “We will be seeking ALPR options that meet our
standards for data security, system transparency, and operational control. As we move
forward, we intend to continue our work with community members to ensure those
expectations are clear and are met.”
The cameras have faced pushback in a number of communities across Oregon. An
unknown number of private companies use them as well, but at least one recently
decided to move away from the technology, citing “questions and concerns” from the
community.
Related: Yakima organization urging city leaders to turn off Flock traffic cameras
Meanwhile, the Lane County Sheriff’s Office said at the end of October it had
contracted, but not installed the cameras.
The announcement by Eugene and Springfield come as law enforcement, as recently
as last week, touted the cameras as helping to solve and deter crime.
“While Eugene Police’s automated license plate readers (ALPRs) were in use, stolen
vehicles were recovered 30% faster,” read a Eugene Police Department press release
from Nov. 26.
The announcements drew praise from a representative of Eyes Off Eugene, a group
that organized in opposition to the cameras.
Science Friday
STREAMING NOW

--- page 4 ---
THANKS TO OUR SPONSOR:
Become a Sponsor
“This is very wonderful and exciting victory for the people of Eugene and Springfield
who have rejected Flock’s dragnet surveillance,” Kamryn Stringfield told KLCC via
email.
“This only happened due to the organized campaign led by Eyes Off Eugene and
other local groups to cancel Flock. Of course we now ask that the Lane County
Sheriff take this as a signal to cancel his contract with Flock too, and we’d like to see
see policies drafted that prevent this type of mass surveillance nightmare from
occurring again.”
Chris Lehman is a reporter with KLCC. This story comes to you from the Northwest
News Network, a collaboration between public media organizations in Oregon and
Washington.
It is part of OPB’s broader effort to ensure that everyone in our region has access to quality
journalism that informs, entertains and enriches their lives. To learn more, visit our
journalism partnerships page.
THANKS TO OUR SPONSOR:
Become a Sponsor
📨 Daily news in
your inbox
Sign up today for OPB’s “First Look” –
your daily guide to the most important
Sign up
example@domain.com
Science Friday
STREAMING NOW

--- page 5 ---
news and culture stories from around
the Northwest.
Related Stories
Skamania County Sheriff’s Office to stop using controversial
Flock cameras
The license plate reader cameras have led to concerns about immigration enforcement and
unnecessary searches.
Nov. 14, 2025
Science Friday
STREAMING NOW

--- page 6 ---
Yakima organization urging city leaders to turn off Flock traffic
cameras
Concerns about the use of these surveillance cameras in immigration operations are growing across
Washington state and nationwide.
Nov. 22, 2025
Federal funding for public media has been
eliminated. Take action now and protect OPB's
independent journalism and essential programs for
everyone.
Make a Sustaining contribution now
Science Friday
STREAMING NOW

--- page 7 ---
About OPB
Help Center
Work With Us
Manage My Membership
Sponsorship
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Cookie Preferences
FCC Public Files
FCC Applications
Terms of Use
Editorial Policy
SMS T&C
Contest Rules
Accessibility

Science Friday
STREAMING NOW