--- page 1 ---
Already a Sustainer?
Click here to increase now

Independent. Member-supported.
For the Pacific Northwest.
Independent.
Member-supported.
About OPB
Watch
Listen
Newsletters
OPB and KMHD events
OPB en Español
Help center
THANKS TO OUR SPONSOR:
Become a Sponsor
Oregon families flock to pumpkin patches
as fall officially begins
By Jireh Deng (OPB)
Sept. 26, 2026 1 p.m.
From free-roaming llamas to hayrides and corn mazes, pumpkin patch
season has become a tradition for parents and young children to celebrate
the end of summer.
A child cautiously raised a cup toward the llama behind a fence as it poked its head
out and buried its nose in the offering of animal feed, happily munching away.
It was the first weekend of pumpkin patch season at the Frog Pond Farm, and dozens
of families with children had flocked to this homestead in Wilsonville, Oregon, to see
scores of animals, from miniature zebu cattle to rabbits, for fall festivities.
donate now
Weekend Edition Sunday with Ayesha Rascoe
STREAMING NOW

--- page 2 ---
“Pumpkin patch season has evolved into our busiest season by far,” said Justin Timm,
a second-generation owner of the farm that is about a 30-minute drive south of
Portland. He estimates that about 20,000 to 30,000 people visit their farm from
September through November. Visitors regularly come from as far south as Coos Bay
and as far north as Tacoma, Washington, he said.
The Frog Pond Farm, like dozens of other local farms in the Portland metro area,
spends weeks prepping for this fall blitz and tries to market itself with unique
attractions that set it apart from its competitors. The farm bills itself as one of the
only pumpkin patches in the country with a pack of free-roaming llamas that casually
walk between rows of orange gourds.
Elanai Hang, 6, was entranced by the novelty of the animals around her.
Margot, a goat, is the farm’s unofficial four-legged greeting committee. She ambled
up to Elanai for pets. “Wow, they’re very hard and up top they’re a bit soft,” Elanai
said, feeling Margot’s horns.
Weekend Edition Sunday with Ayesha Rascoe
STREAMING NOW

--- page 3 ---
A child and parent hold up a cup of animal feed to a hungry goat at the Frog Pond Farm in Wilsonville, Ore., on Saturday,
Sept. 24, 2026. The farm hits its peak traffic in the fall when thousands of families visit for pumpkin patch season.
Jireh Deng / OPB
What made the farm exciting? “You could enjoy the fall day and enjoy the animals,
and you could enjoy the fun,” Elanai said.
Denise Castañon, editor of the website and magazine PDX Parent, said pumpkin
patch season has become an annual tradition for many local families because of its
nostalgic appeal to parents and children.
“If you’re living in a city, you really don’t get to be on a farm that often,” Castañon
said. Kids get to see animals and experience the winding acres of corn mazes, and the
activities can fill up an entire day, she added. “It’s a really fun thing to do with your
family in the fall and it celebrates the change in season.”
Pumpkin patches offer affordable fun, with options
for every family
There are so many pumpkin patches available locally that it can be overwhelming to
know where to start. That’s why PDX Parent has compiled a comprehensive list with
a handy map of over 30 farms that its staff have visited.
Castañon said there’s something for everyone based on each family’s needs — such as
Bushue’s Family Farm and Nursery, which features a mini corn maze so parents
won’t lose their small children in an intimidating labyrinth of corn husks.
Weekend Edition Sunday with Ayesha Rascoe
STREAMING NOW

--- page 4 ---
THANKS TO OUR SPONSOR:
Become a Sponsor
Best friends Annie Wang and Ivy Wang exit the corn maze at the Frog Pond Farm in Wilsonville, Ore., on Saturday, Sept.
24, 2026. The farm has many family friendly attractions including face painting and bounce houses.
Jireh Deng / OPB
Affordability is always a focus for the publication, Castañon said.
“We note places that [have] free admission and then if you want to pay extra you can,
but you don’t have to,” Castañon said. “That’s a great way to save a little bit of
money.”
Jay Ortiz, mother of Elanai Hang, brought her daughters and niece to the Frog Pond
Farm. Ortiz, a single mother, said she tries to save money by not eating out too much
when they do family outings.
Weekend Edition Sunday with Ayesha Rascoe
STREAMING NOW

--- page 5 ---
“I definitely do feel that for $25 it is worth it,” Ortiz said of the all-in pass that the
Frog Pond Farm charges for admission. The kids each received a cup full of food
pellets to feed the animals. “You get to play in the bouncy house, they have a new
section where you get your face painted … this farm is pretty big.”
Families walk off the pumpkin patch with their selected gourds at the Frog Pond Farm in Wilsonville, Ore., on Saturday,
Sept. 24, 2026. The farm sells tens of thousands of pumpkins each year during the fall.
Jireh Deng / OPB
About 10 miles north from Portland on Sauvie Island, The Pumpkin Patch markets
itself as one of the oldest family-run farms. The farm, the sunflower fields and animal
barns, is free for everyone.
“We really like to be an affordable farm for families and people around Portland,”
said Jade Miller, a third-generation owner of the farm her grandparents started in
1967. “We just want you to enjoy the farm.”
At its peak, The Pumpkin Patch can welcome up to 10,000 people a day in mid-
October, making the congestion across the Wapato Bridge a bit of a headache,
Weekend Edition Sunday with Ayesha Rascoe
STREAMING NOW

--- page 6 ---
according to Miller. The Pumpkin Patch also grows about 2 million pounds of
pumpkins each year on 25 acres of farmland, making it one of the largest suppliers of
pumpkins to Albertsons in Oregon, she said.
Produce is sorted and tagged with SKU stickers before being shipped off for sale at Albertsons and Safeway at The
Pumpkin Patch on Sauvie Island, Ore., on Thursday, Sept. 24, 2026.
Jireh Deng / OPB
Visitors only need to pay a $2 fee to take a 20-minute hayride to the fields where they
can pick a pumpkin straight off the vine.
“If you can carry it, it’s only $15,” Miller said of the price cap on pumpkins sold to
guests. “The coolest thing is we’ve had customers get 80-, 90-pound pumpkins out
from our field.”
Teens get a first job while kids get a lesson
Weekend Edition Sunday with Ayesha Rascoe
STREAMING NOW

--- page 7 ---
Pumpkin patches are more than a local attraction; they’re also an educational
opportunity.
To help with the influx of families that descend on the Frog Pond Farm, the business
hired a dozen teens for the fall season. Dressed in neon vests, they help with various
tasks while getting on-the-job experience.
Shoppers buy freshly picked produce at The Pumpkin Patch on Sauvie Island, Ore., on Thursday, Sept. 24, 2026. The
Pumpkin Patch welcomes thousands of visitors each during the fall.
Jireh Deng / OPB
“It’s my first job, I really like it,” said Anilayah Diaz, a sophomore at North Marion
High School. Diaz saw a hiring ad on social media and now works at the farm on
weekends. Diaz sizes the pumpkins for price as she checks out customers. “I like the
animals and all the families that come and I get to meet new people, it’s pretty cool.”
Farm manager Lindsey Davis hopes kids leave the farm’s 20-plus acres, home to
animals from camels to emus, with a sense of wonder.
Weekend Edition Sunday with Ayesha Rascoe
STREAMING NOW

--- page 8 ---
Weekend Edition Sunday with Ayesha Rascoe
STREAMING NOW

--- page 9 ---
Margot, a goat, is the unofficial greeting committee at the Frog Pond Farm in Wilsonville, Ore., on Saturday, Sept. 24,
2026. She walks up to kids and parents alike, searching for food and pets.
Jireh Deng / OPB
“I love sharing this farm with the community and our new hires,” Davis said. The
teens learned during lunch breaks that the pigs will eat their leftover banana peels, she
said. “It’s been amazing watching them experience the farm in a new way because I’m
so used to it.”
Ivy Wang, 9, on the other hand, had already seen llamas at a zoo in Beijing and wasn’t
too impressed. The corn maze, she said, was “too easy” in the 5 seconds it took for
her to escape.
Nevertheless, she said she was having a blast with her best friend, Annie, as they ate
apple cider donuts and fed the goats.
“It’s my first time,” Wang said of visiting the farm. “Of course I wanna come back
again.”
Dear Reader,
The story you just finished is a direct result of community support. As Oregon’s largest
independent newsroom, OPB is 100% funded by our readers, listeners and viewers. Our
journalists are focused on providing the trustworthy, independent reporting you rely on,
while also sharing the stories of the unique arts and culture that define our region.
Every piece of reporting is made possible by the community that values it.
During our Fall Member Drive, your support is more critical than ever. Your gift helps
keep this journalism freely accessible, so more people can stay informed, connected
and curious about the PNW.
Give today to keep trusted local journalism available across our region.
— The OPB Team
Weekend Edition Sunday with Ayesha Rascoe
STREAMING NOW

--- page 10 ---
THANKS TO OUR SPONSOR:
Become a Sponsor
Please select an amount to give. Your contribution keeps cultural connection and fact-
based reporting available to everyone.
THANKS TO OUR SPONSOR:
Become a Sponsor
$
/ mo.
Continue ➜
Sustaining
One-time
$10 / mo.
$25 / mo.
$50 / mo.
$100 / mo.
Other Amount
Weekend Edition Sunday with Ayesha Rascoe
STREAMING NOW

--- page 11 ---
📨 Daily news in
your inbox
Sign up today for OPB’s “First Look” –
your daily guide to the most important
news and culture stories from around
the Northwest.
Sign up
Related Stories
Love pumpkin spice lattes? Learn some of its spicy history
For NPR's Word of the Week: Things are getting spicy. We explain how a word referring to cinnamon
and pepper turned less literal by the 19th century.
Sept. 25, 2025
example@domain.com
Weekend Edition Sunday with Ayesha Rascoe
STREAMING NOW

--- page 12 ---
Oregon Legislature votes to allow more agritourism on
farmland. Critics say it’s short-sighted
Oregon farmers will soon have a clearer path to run a retail store and host agritourism events on
their land, despite strong opposition from land policy watchdogs — and from other farmers, too.
March 6, 2026
Weekend Edition Sunday with Ayesha Rascoe
STREAMING NOW

--- page 13 ---
Oregon land-use groups, farmers at odds over agritourism
The Oregon House is considering a bill that would modify a permitting system some farmers and
county planners say is confusing. Land-use watchdog groups argue it could harm farming
communities.
Feb. 5, 2026
Tags: Arts And Culture, Portland, Agriculture
OPB is 100% funded by our community. Take action
now to help ensure OPB's independent journalism and
essential programs thrive for everyone.
Make a Sustaining contribution now
Weekend Edition Sunday with Ayesha Rascoe
STREAMING NOW

--- page 14 ---
About OPB
Help Center
Work With Us
Manage My Membership
Sponsorship
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Cookie Preferences
FCC Public Files
FCC Applications
Terms of Use
Editorial Policy
SMS T&C
Contest Rules
Accessibility

Weekend Edition Sunday with Ayesha Rascoe
STREAMING NOW