--- page 1 ---
Independent. Member-supported.
For the Pacific Northwest.
Independent.
Member-supported.
donate now
About OPB
Public media funding
2026 election results
OPB and KMHD events
Watch
Listen
THANKS TO OUR SPONSOR:
Become a Sponsor
Albany City Council will decide whether to
turn the city’s Flock camera back on
By Macy Moore (KLCC)
May 26, 2026 8:56 p.m.
The Albany City Council will soon decide whether to turn the police department’s
Flock camera back on.
Only one of the four contracted Flock cameras has been installed in Albany, and was
turned off after a City Council vote in February. The camera was then stolen.
Morning Edition
STREAMING NOW

--- page 2 ---
FILE — An undated photo of a flock camera in Eugene, where the city has turned off the devices due to privacy concerns.
Nathan Wilk / KLCC
Critics of the AI-powered license plate reading cameras call them an invasion of
privacy that can put vulnerable people at risk, especially if data gathered by the
cameras is accessed by law enforcement agencies from outside the area.
At a recent community meeting, the Albany Police Department answered questions
from the Albany Public Safety Commission and the public about the cameras.
Police Chief Marcia Harnden said the Flock camera system is susceptible to the same
risks as other police databases.
“It’s about having good audits in place, good oversight in place, and then when we see
abnormalities, checking on them,” said Harnden.
Meeting attendees cited several concerns including data privacy, camera misuse by
officers, targeting of marginalized communities, and camera use by federal
Morning Edition
STREAMING NOW

--- page 3 ---
THANKS TO OUR SPONSOR:
Become a Sponsor
THANKS TO OUR SPONSOR:
Become a Sponsor
immigration enforcement. Other cities in Oregon, including Eugene and Springfield,
had implemented these cameras, but have permanently disabled them due to similar
concerns.
Sheerica Ware Wilkins, public affairs manager for Flock who also attended the May 18
meeting, said she understands the concerns presented, and that Flock should have
had more privacy protections from the get-go.
“We dropped the ball way earlier. We should have been in the conversation, putting
up guardrails immediately,” said Wilkins.
Members of the Public Safety Commission also discussed concerns, with commission
member Joanna Robinson stating she doesn’t think enough trust has been built with
the public.
“So I hesitate to move forward with something like this when it makes members of
our community, a good chunk of them, afraid,” said Robinson.
Commissioner Bessie Johnson said she wants to resume use of the cameras to see if
they provide safety benefits in Albany.
“There comes a time when you have to trust your police department,” said Johnson.
Ultimately, the commission voted to recommend resuming camera use to the city
council.
At the next meeting on Wednesday May 27, the Albany City Council is scheduled to
vote on whether to re-install the downtown camera and move forward with placing
three other cameras around the city.
Macy Moore is a reporter with the KLCC newsroom. This story comes to you from
the Northwest News Network, a collaboration between public media organizations in Oregon
and Washington.
It is part of OPB’s broader effort to ensure that everyone in our region has access to quality
journalism that informs, entertains and enriches their lives. To learn more, visit our
journalism partnerships page.
Morning Edition
STREAMING NOW

--- page 4 ---
THANKS TO OUR SPONSOR:
Become a Sponsor
📨 Daily news in
your inbox
Sign up today for OPB’s “First Look” –
your daily guide to the most important
news and culture stories from around
the Northwest.
Sign up
Related Stories
example@domain.com
Morning Edition
STREAMING NOW

--- page 5 ---
Washington adds safeguards for Flock cameras
But the new law’s once-chief supporter now has some misgivings about it.
March 31, 2026
Morning Edition
STREAMING NOW

--- page 6 ---
Bend is the latest Oregon city to turn off Flock cameras
City of Bend turns off Flock Safety cameras after community outcry over the automatic license
plate reader technology.
Jan. 8, 2026
Florence to hold town hall on future of Flock automatic license
plate cameras
Eugene, Springfield and Lane County suspended their contracts with Flock last month, after
months of public outcry.
Jan. 3, 2026
Morning Edition
STREAMING NOW

--- page 7 ---
Eugene and Springfield both announce end of Flock camera
usage
The announcements, issued in separate press releases, come after months of public pushback.
Dec. 6, 2025
Tags: Law Enforcement, Police
Federal funding for public media has been
eliminated. Take action now and protect OPB's
independent journalism and essential programs for
everyone.
Make a Sustaining contribution now
About OPB
Help Center
Manage My Membership
Sponsorship

Morning Edition
STREAMING NOW

--- page 8 ---
Work With Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Cookie Preferences
FCC Public Files
FCC Applications
Terms of Use
Editorial Policy
SMS T&C
Contest Rules
Accessibility
Morning Edition
STREAMING NOW