Junction City to consider automatic license plate cameras - OPB Independent. Member-supported. For the Pacific Northwest. Independent. Member-supported. donate now About OPB Wildfire resources Watch Listen Newsletters OPB and KMHD events OPB en Español Help center Junction City to consider automatic license plate cameras By Rebecca Hansen-White (KLCC) July 18, 2026 2:55 p.m. An undated photo of a flock camera in Eugene. Nathan Wilk / KLCC Junction City could be the latest Oregon community to install automatic license plate cameras. The city is considering a 90-day trial. THANKS TO OUR SPONSOR: Become a Sponsor Flock, one of the most popular vendors, makes searchable, digital fingerprints of cars using license plates, vehicle color or other characteristics. It can also track bicycles. During a meeting Tuesday, Junction City Police Chief Mark Waddell said the company had offered the city an 8-camera, free trial. He said the technology could help police more quickly resolve missing person cases, or other public safety calls. “The technology will never replace good police work, sound judgement or constitutional policing,” Waddell said. “It’s simply another tool, one that helps us respond faster, when lives may be at risk.” Related: Albany City Council will decide whether to turn the city’s Flock camera back on Some community members, including Junction City resident Rachael Steen-Larsen, testified against the potential contract with Flock, saying the cameras would surveil innocent people and violate civil liberties. “They collect information on everyone first and ask questions later,” Steen-Larsen said. “That changes the relationship between citizens and their government. Instead of conducting targeted investigations based on evidence, it creates a searchable record of the moments of movements of ordinary people, a record that is vulnerable to misuse.” THANKS TO OUR SPONSOR: Become a Sponsor Related: Bend is the latest Oregon city to turn off Flock cameras Oregon lawmakers passed data retention restrictions and other rules for automatic license plate readers during this year’s legislative session. Companies that provide this technology in Oregon are required to provide end-to-end encryption, and follow the state’s sanctuary law. Eugene, Lane County and Springfield canceled their contracts last year. Eugene leaders said they were worried about federal abuse of the data. One of Eugene’s cameras was also turned back on after city officials voted to turn them off. Flock representatives attended the meeting and told the council that their servers were secure, they had systems in place to prevent abuse of the data, and they do not have contracts with Homeland Security or ICE. Related: Washington adds safeguards for Flock cameras Junction City Interim City Administrator Spencer Nebel told KLCC that city staff are still reviewing the potential contract and no decision has been made. He said another discussion about Flock cameras is scheduled on Aug. 11. He said the 90-day trial is free, but if the city continues with the company, it would be responsible for the cost. According to draft contract documents, the value of the cameras and access to Flock’s network and platform is $29,500. Rebecca Hansen-White is a reporter with KLCC . This story comes to you from the Northwest News Network, a collaboration between public media organizations in Oregon and Washington. It is part of OPB’s broader effort to ensure that everyone in our region has access to quality journalism that informs, entertains and enriches their lives. To learn more, visit our journalism partnerships page . THANKS TO OUR SPONSOR: Become a Sponsor THANKS TO OUR SPONSOR: Become a Sponsor 📨 Daily news in your inbox Sign up today for OPB’s “First Look” – your daily guide to the most important news and culture stories from around the Northwest. Email Please leave this field blank Sign up Related Stories Albany City Council will decide whether to turn the city’s Flock camera back on City officials are weighing whether to turn one of its AI-powered cameras back on for police to read license plates, but residents recently continued voicing strong privacy concerns with the devices. May 26, 2026 Bend is the latest Oregon city to turn off Flock cameras City of Bend turns off Flock Safety cameras after community outcry over the automatic license plate reader technology. Jan. 8, 2026 Washington adds safeguards for Flock cameras But the new law’s once-chief supporter now has some misgivings about it. March 31, 2026 Tags: Willamette Valley , Transportation , Security Federal funding for public media is gone. Take action now and protect OPB's independent journalism and essential programs for everyone. Make a Sustaining contribution now About OPB Help Center Work With Us  Manage My Membership Sponsorship Contact Us Privacy Policy Cookie Preferences FCC Public Files FCC Applications Terms of Use Editorial Policy SMS T&C Contest Rules Accessibility Listen to the OPB News live stream (opens new window) Streaming Now BBC The Arts Hour Show switch stream buttons Switch Stream: OPB News Listen to the OPB News live stream (opens new window) KMHD Listen to the KMHD live stream (opens new window)