source: packet.pdf
sha256: 97e933a0ccabdbbc57aaa28abfdcab909b76260f90be89cac1692b50f6e0c3cf
pages: 8
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Sustainability & Infrastructure
Commission
September 8, 2021
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Adam Loraine, Chair
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair
Clifford Robbins
Rafael Reyes
Susan Rowinski
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO AUTHORIZATION FROM
GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: September 8, 2021 Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 830 8283 1300
Passcode: 903515
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure regular meeting of August 11, 2021.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to Speak"
form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be referred to
staff for further review.
OLD BUSINESS
2.
Bicycle and Pedestrian Projects Update
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, acting as the City of San Mateo's Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory
Committee, receive an update on bicycle and pedestrian projects.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments, calendar of events and requests for future agenda items
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website by the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
1 of 8

--- page 2 ---
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: Commission meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. To indicate you want
to provide public comment, when the item of interest is open for consideration, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon press * 6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact Public Works Office at (650) 522-7300 or kaplan@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 8

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR 
File ID: 2018 - 21-5077
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Azalea Mitch
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
September 08, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure regular meeting of August 11, 2021.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes of the August 11, 2021 meeting
3 of 8

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Sustainability & Infrastructure 
Commission  
August 11, 2021 
7:00 PM 
 
Remote Meeting 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS  
Adam Loraine, Chair  
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair 
Clifford Robbins 
Rafael Reyes 
Susan Rowinski 
MINUTES 
CALL TO ORDER – This meeting is being held under the provision of State of California Governor Gavin 
Newsom’s Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in 
due to the Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency. 
  
Pledge of Allegiance 
Roll Call 
 
Remote:  Chair Loraine, Commissioners Robbins and Reyes.  Commissioner Narita joined the meeting during 
New Business Item #2.  Commissioner Rowinski was absent.   
 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
  
1. Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Minutes - Approval  
 
Motion to approve the minutes of July 14, 2021.  Motion passed 3-0. 
 
Moved:    Reyes, Seconded:  Robbins 
Ayes:       3 - Robbins, Reyes, and Loraine 
Noes:       None 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
Diana spoke regarding building permits issued for development of projects, specifically mentioning the project at 
200 S. Fremont.  The pile driving from this project has caused excessive shaking to nearby buildings.  There is 
concern from the residents at 211 and 221 S. Fremont, as these are older buildings.  Diana asked how a resident 
can stop a project when there are problems caused from the build-out of the project.  
 
Chair Loraine reminded public commenters that the public can contact Public Works at:  
publicworks@cityofsanmateo.org and the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission at:  
SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org for questions or for clarification and additional information. 
 
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a “Request to Speak” 
form.  State law prevents the commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda.  Your comments may be referred to staff 
for further review. 
 
NEW BUSINESS  
 
2. Transit Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Plan - Introduction 
4 of 8

--- page 5 ---
Nicolette Chan, Assistant Transportation Planner, along with Ingrid Ballús Armet, Senior Transportation 
Engineer and Matt Goyne, Senior Associate, from Fehr & Peers, made a presentation to the Commission on an 
information update on the Transit Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Plan and provided feedback on the 
draft community engagement plan.  Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner was also available to 
answer questions. 
 
Public Comment.  Drew, Diana, Dave Clark, and Rick Bonilla spoke to the item regarding outreach to disability 
groups, current Caltrain riders, Nueva students, 19th Avenue, and Hilldale Garden residents; make transit options 
available to all; Hayward Park station needs to have parking available for disabled; possible shuttle from 
Hillsdale Shopping Center to train; include Silicon Valley Bicycle Coalition City of San Mateo local team as a 
stakeholder; specific pedestrian-oriented issues need to be addressed with the new Hillsdale station. 
 
No motion needed for this item but comments from Commissioners included: look at community groups that 
have not been historically engaged; look at outreach with PAL at King Center, Boys and Girls Club, school 
districts, seniors, Senior Task Force, Asian Uplift, Coalition Z, San Mateo Youth and Government; engage with 
Latinx community, SamTrans Citizens Advisory Committee, and Silicon Valley Bicycle Coalition; this is an 
opportunity to find a way to quantify Latinx community; need some type of base line target, set up template that 
shows what is working and what is not working; change name from TOD to San Mateo Walks; rather than rely 
on surveys, a pop-up or virtual community meeting would be more engaging. 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENT FROM COMMISSIONER AND STAFF 
 
Chair Loraine reminded folks about the bike summit being held Thursday and Friday. There are a number of 
events throughout the day and tickets for the summit can be purchased at https://bikesiliconvalley.org  
 
 ADJOURNMENT 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:25pm 
 
Agendas and background material are posted on the City’s website www.cityofanmateo.org at least 72 hours preceding each 
Commission meeting.  Any supplemental material distributed to Commissioners after the posting of the agenda will be available for 
public review at City Hall, City Manager’s office. 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo. 
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this 
meeting may contact the Public Works Department at (650) 522-7300.  Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the city to 
make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting. 
 
5 of 8

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 21-5052
TO:
Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Azalea Mitch
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
September 08, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Bicycle and Pedestrian Projects Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, acting as the City of San Mateo's Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory 
Committee, receive an update on bicycle and pedestrian projects. 
BACKGROUND:
Staff will present brief updates on the pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure projects and planning efforts.
Infrastructure Projects
28th Avenue Bicycle Boulevard: The bicycle boulevard will be implemented in two segments on 28th Avenue. The first, 
between Mason Lane and El Camino Real, includes a curb extension at Hacienda Street, a speed table (elevated crosswalk), 
pavement markings, and wayfinding signage.  The following is an update on this effort.

Project construction was completed at the end of June 2021, including installation of the raised crosswalk, 
updated striping, speed cushions, and wayfinding signage. Staff is completing the final administrative closeout 
work this fall.
North Central Bike Lanes Project: The City receives federal funding from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban 
Development (HUD) for the CDBG program and allocates the funds based on community priorities. The projects identified 
for implementation with these funds are the projects identified as the 2nd and 4th highest priority projects in the 2020 
Bicycle Master Plan. These projects include a bicycle boulevard and bicycle lanes on Humboldt Street and bicycle lanes on 
Poplar and Indian Avenues to connect to the North San Mateo Drive project. The following is an update on this effort.

Staff has finalized the project design, and bids were received during August 2021. Staff is evaluating the bids and 
expects to bring the project to City Council for construction award later in September.

Staff began outreach in the neighborhood in late May with a virtual community meeting and communicated 
information about the meeting via mailed postcards to residents on Poplar and Humboldt, postings on Nextdoor, 
and direct outreach with the Home Association of North Central San Mateo (HANCSM). Staff developed a project 
website, which currently contains project information, maps, details on the planned parking removal, video of the 
community meeting, and FAQs about the project. 

In July, Public Works crews installed 100 signs on light poles and street signs along Poplar and Humboldt to more 
directly reach residents, visitors, and others who currently park on roadways where parking will be removed. The 
signs contain a QR code that links to the project website. Since the signs were posted, Public Works has seen more 
than 300 visitors to the project website, 130 of whom were from San Mateo and 99 of which were first-time 
website visitors. The average San Mateo visitor stayed on the page for an average of 4.5 minutes, indicating they 
read the information available. 

Since installation of the signs, staff has received comments from eight (8) residents via phone or email. The 
6 of 8

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
comments have primarily expressed resident concern regarding the parking removal, and about future parking 
availability in the neighborhood. 
5th Avenue Bike Lanes: The 5th Avenue Bike Lanes project will implement the 16th highest priority project in the 2020 
Bicycle Master Plan. The project includes new Class II bicycle lanes on 5th Avenue from Virginia Avenue to El Camino Real 
as well as concrete work on the street and sidewalk. The bike lanes will be constructed as part of the Citywide Street 
Rehabilitation Package 1-C (Phase 2) project. Coordination between the City's paving schedule and bicycle projects is 
important to guarantee the bike facility has a smooth surface. Parking will be removed on 5th Avenue between Virginia 
Avenue to Dartmouth Road/Maple Street to provide the necessary right-of-way for the proposed east-west bike lanes. 
Parking will remain from Dartmouth Road/Maple Street to El Camino Real as this portion of 5th Avenue is wider and 
provides enough space to accommodate both the new bicycle lanes and vehicle storage on the street. The following is an 
update on this effort.

The project was recently awarded for construction, which is scheduled to begin in fall 2021 and completed 
spring 2022.The portion of 5th Avenue identified for parking removal is part of the City’s Residential Parking Permit 
Program (RPPP). 

City staff provided notification of the upcoming project and parking removal directly to residents on this roadway 
segment that are current permit holders and thus able to currently park on-street. Residents will be able to park 
on nearby streets with their RPPP permit displayed.  
Downtown Parking Garage Pedestrian Safety: This project aims to design pedestrian safety improvements at the entrances 
and exits of Central Parking Garage, Main Street Parking Garage, and the 2nd and El Camino Real Parking Garage. The 
following is an update on this effort.

Staff and the consultant team continue efforts on Phase 2 of the project, which will develop final design drawings 
and specifications. The final design is expected to be complete in early fall 2021.
High-Priority Bike Projects Package A: This project is a group of six, high-priority bicycle facilities identified in the Bicycle 
Master Plan: Delaware/State/Claremont Bike Corridor (priority #7); Monte Diablo Bike Boulevard (priority #8); Tilton 
Avenue Bike Lane (priority #9); Railroad Avenue Bike Corridor (priority #12); Downtown Bike Access Improvement (priority 
#13); 5th Avenue and San Mateo Drive Bike Corridor (priority #16). The projects have been funded in the FY2021-22 CIP 
budget for design. The following is an update on this effort.

Staff is currently preparing a request for proposal (RFP) to retain a consultant to prepare a project design.  The RFP 
is anticipated to be issued during winter 2021/2022.
Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor: Staff applied for the California Transportation Commission (CTC) Active 
Transportation Program (ATP) Cycle 5 call for projects for the Delaware Street Safe Routes to School bicycle project. This 
project will implement the Delaware Street Class IV separated bike lane and Class III bicycle boulevard as planned in the 
2020 Bicycle Master Plan. This project provides necessary safety improvements in an area with a high level of traffic stress 
and history of collisions and will improve safety and connectivity to two public schools accessed from Delaware Street. 
Further, this project improves connectivity with the newly relocated Hillsdale Caltrain station from the north and south. 
The following is an update on this effort.

The CTC formally approved the project for funding in the ATP Cycle 5 program and City Council recently approved 
appropriation of the grant funding.

Staff is beginning to work with Caltrans to allocate funding for the first phases of the project and is preparing an 
overall project schedule.
28th Avenue Gap Closure Project: Staff was awarded funds in the San Mateo County Transportation Authority Pedestrian 
and Bicycle Program Cycle 5 to fund design and environmental review for the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap 
Closure project. The project intent is to evaluate design options for the Class IV separated bike lane implementation 
identified in the adopted 2020 Bicycle Master Plan, in addition to bicycle and pedestrian connectivity across the 
intersection of 28th Avenue and El Camino Real. The following is an update on this effort.

The funding agreement with the SMCTA has been finalized and City Council recently approved appropriation of 
grant and local match funding. Staff is working on an RFP to solicit consultant services for the project design.
7 of 8

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Caltrain Grade Separation Project: The Caltrain Grade Separation project resulted in removing at-grade railroad crossings 
at 25th, 28th, and 31st Avenues and moving the Hillsdale Caltrain Station north to 28th Avenue. The project included 
development of a Class I shared use path on the north sidewalk of the 28th Avenue undercrossing. The following is an 
update on this effort.

The station driveway exiting to westbound 28th Avenue has been rebuilt to address community concerns regarding 
bicyclist and pedestrian visibility and sight distance. The project team will complete the striping and signage 
installation on the Class I path in the near future to complete the project. 

In Spring 2022, the City expects to initiate a traffic study to provide data for consideration in developing on-street 
bicycle facilities on both 25th and 28th Avenues.
Planning Projects
Transit-Oriented Development Pedestrian Access Plan: The City was awarded Transportation Development Act (TDA) 
Article 3 funds for this project, which will evaluate the full pedestrian path of travel to the City’s high-quality transit stops. 
The Plan will identify necessary improvements to create a safe and comfortable pedestrian realm within one-half mile of 
those locations. The following is an update on this effort.

The Commission received an update on the project in July 2021 and provided feedback on the draft Community 
Engagement Plan. Staff and the consultant team have consolidated the feedback and updated the strategy 
accordingly and have begun outreach. 
San Mateo Complete Streets Plan: A collaborative team of staff from Public Works, Community Development, and the City 
Manager’s Office submitted an application to the Caltrans Sustainable Communities FY 2021-22 Grant Program for the San 
Mateo Complete Streets Plan. This project will bring together the City’s various active transportation plans and Green 
Infrastructure Plan to fully envision a multimodal transportation network and identify priority improvements for the City. 
Staff was notified in June 2021 that the project was selected for full funding. The following is an update on this effort.

Staff is working with Caltrans on the contracting phase for this effort and is expected to receive Notice to Proceed 
on the effort in late Fall 2021. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with receiving this program update.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This bicycle and pedestrian program update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None.
STAFF CONTACT
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
8 of 8