Transparency Portal
Visit Flock
Casa Grande AZ PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Sat Jun 13 2026

OVERVIEW

Casa Grande AZ PD uses Flock Safety LPR Technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Casa Grande AZ PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Casa Grande AZ PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

POLICIES

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Casa Grande AZ PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
USAGE

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

LPR Cameras

Number of LPR cameras only.

93

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

340,872

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

9,550

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

312
ADDITIONAL INFO

Safe City Success Stories

The Casa Grande Police Department is committed to transparency, accountability, and the responsible use of technology. The Safe City Success Stories below provide real-world examples of how our Real Time Information Center (RTIC) and Flock Safety technologies are used to support investigations, locate missing persons, enhance officer safety, and protect our community. This section is updated regularly and displays recent activity to demonstrate the measurable impact of the Safe City Initiative.

These examples represent only a small snapshot of RTIC activity and outcomes and are not a comprehensive list of all cases or incidents where Safe City technology has assisted. Many uses occur daily and may not be included due to investigative sensitivity, case status, or the routine nature of the assistance provided.

June 2026

Patrol Officers investigating a Vehicle Collision with Injuries requested RTIC staff review PTZ camera footage of the location where the collision occurred. RTIC staff reviewed the footage, providing significant useful information for Officers to complete their investigation.

The Casa Grande Fire Department and Police Department responded to a commercial structure fire at an industrial facility within the city. The large property stores and refurbishes industrial barrels on-site and, due to the size and limited accessibility, presented unique challenges. Upon arrival, firefighters had difficulty determining the exact location and extent of the fire because the affected area was not readily visible from their initial access points.

Real Time Information Center (RTIC) staff was monitoring calls for service and deployed Drone as a First Responder (DFR) to assist. Upon arrival at the scene, RTIC staff was able to relay critical information to firefighters regarding the location of the fire, specifically providing which side of the building flames were coming from. This was an area not visible to the reporting witnesses or firefighters initially arriving on scene.

RTIC staff was advised of a reported reckless driver at the city golf course. The vehicle, a UTV, was observed driving recklessly across golf course property, including cart paths, fairways, and through the parking lot. The UTV was traveling at high speeds and through areas where pedestrians were walking. RTIC identified the vehicle utilizing LPR cameras, leading investigating Officers to identify the registered owner of the UTV. Charges are pending the outcome of the investigation.


May 2026

RTIC deployed DFR to assist Patrol officers during a burglary investigation. DFR assisted in locating the suspect and provided situational overwatch for officers during the investigation.

RTIC deployed DFR to attempt to locate a crash location reported by an insurance company. DFR arrived on scene and searched the surrounding areas. No crash site was located, and no need for emergency services was observed, allowing patrol officers to continue routine patrol service.

RTIC deployed DFR to a local park for a reported fight in progress. When DFR arrived on scene, a large group appeared to be verbally arguing. Shortly after, DFR observed the situation escalating and became a physical fight between approximately ten people. When police arrived, multiple subjects ran away from the scene. DFR kept a visual on a suspect who appeared to be the primary aggressor and led patrol officers to his location, helping them further the investigation.

RTIC deployed DFR to respond to a call of a person banging on a door at an apartment complex. DFR arrived on scene and was able to determine there was no one in the area. This allowed Patrol officers to break from the call and tend to a priority call for service.

RTIC deployed DFR to respond to a call of a group of juveniles damaging/spray painting graffiti on property near City Hall. PTZ cameras showed these subjects traveling to Peart Park, and this information was relayed to responding Patrol officers. Officers conducted an investigation with four juveniles, matching their identities and involvement in the criminal activity, resulting in criminal charges being filed.

RTIC was monitoring a vehicle collision with injuries. RTIC was able to gather a significant amount of evidentiary information and upload it into the call before patrol officers even arrived on scene. This saved the investigating officers critical time needed to manage the scene and return the roadway to operational condition.

RTIC was monitoring a shoplifting at a local retail center when the reporting party stated the suspect fled the area on a bicycle. RTIC utilized PTZ cameras to verify the suspects direction of travel and deployed DFR in an attempt to locate him. DFR located the suspect, allowing RTIC staff to relay that information to responding officers. Officers arrived on scene and took the suspect into custody without further incident. DFR continued to provide situational oversight until the scene was controlled.

RTIC was monitoring a call for service regarding a domestic disturbance. Assisted by patrol officers who gathered initial intelligence, RTIC deployed DFR, which successfully located the suspect at a residence. Responding officers arrived and established a perimeter. The suspect attempted to evade officers by fleeing the rear of the home, jumping multiple residential property fences. DFR relayed specific location information to patrol officers, who were able to take the suspect into custody without further incident.

RTIC deployed DFR to a call for service regarding a missing 5-year-old. DFR arrived on scene in approximately 70 seconds and began searching the perimeter of a park. Responding officers arrived and, with the assistance of DFR, successfully located the child. Officers returned the child to their respective guardian.

RTIC used PTZ/LPR systems to identify a vehicle involved in a fraud case. The victim was scammed out of $6,000.00 during a phone call where an unknown number of suspects led the victim to believe his bank needed cash. The victim was told to hand the cash to someone in a parking lot. This vehicle was observed on camera having contact with the victim and then driving away from the scene. The vehicle and driver were identified and later interviewed. The driver stated she was driving for Uber and the victim stated he was giving her legal paperwork. She took the package to another location through Uber somewhere in Phoenix where an unknown male subject reached into her car, took the item and walked away. This case is being forwarded to the CGPD Criminal Investigations Division for follow-up.

RTIC deployed DFR to an intersection where it was reported that a driver of a vehicle was stopped in a lane of travel and blocking traffic. DFR arrived on scene and relayed information to officers for situational awareness. DFR kept a visual of the vehicle in case it drove away before officers could contact the driver. A male subject was found in the driver seat of the vehicle, asleep with a large container of alcohol within his reach. He was later arrested for DUI.

RTIC deployed DFR to a domestic disturbance where a female subject ran to a neighbors house to hide from her abusive husband. The neighbor found the female crying in the driveway and alerted police. While DFR was flying to the scene, the female stated her husband had guns in the home and would be aggressive with officers. Additional information was relayed that the female fired a handgun at the husband and she was still in possession of the firearm. DFR kept a visual of the scene as police entered the home. Upon arrival at the residence, officers discovered a 46-year-old male, deceased. DFR provided overwatch for situational awareness and officer safety. CGPD Criminal Investigations Division is continuing this investigation.

RTIC assisted patrol with a domestic disturbance where a male suspect reportedly struck a female victim with a pole. The male fled the scene on foot but was located by a patrol drone in the backyard of a nearby residence. The patrol pilot stated he only had a limited amount of battery life to assist with the call. RTIC deployed the DFR to relieve the patrol pilot. DFR located the suspect again and provided overwatch while officers prepared to contact him. During this time, the suspect realized officers were on scene and began to move around the yard. DFR observed him reach into his pocket and remove a small item. Held the item consistent with someone holding the handle of a knife. RTIC staff relayed these observations and the new location of the suspect for officer safety. Patrol and K-9 units entered the yard and safely apprehended the suspect. Brass knuckles and illegal narcotics were later found in the suspects possession. He was arrested and charges of Aggravated Assault DV, Disorderly Conduct DV, Threats, Theft, Preventing the use of 911, Interfering with Judicial Proceedings, and Possession of Dangerous/Narcotic Drugs were submitted to the county attorneys office.

RTIC assisted patrol with a complicated shooting investigation where the parties involved were not cooperative. Patrol officers identified a vehicle involved in the incident. RTIC utilized PTZ cameras to locate the vehicle in the Promenade Mall parking lot. This led to the identification and arrest of the shooting suspect.


April 2026

RTIC was monitoring a call for service involving the report of a stolen vehicle. RTIC utilized PTZ recorded footage to identify and locate the stolen vehicle leaving the parking lot of the reported crime scene. DFR was deployed and located the stolen vehicle, abandoned in an alleyway approximately one-quarter mile away from the original crime scene. No suspect(s) was identified, but officers were able to return the vehicle to the owner.

RTIC deployed DFR to a local park where drug use was reported by a citizen. DFR searched all locations and people that were consistent with the caller's descriptions. No crime was observed.

DFR was requested by officers on-scene of a Domestic Disturbance after learning the suspect fled on foot. RTIC deployed DFR and located the suspect. RTIC then advised the on-scene officers that he was re-entering the property from the rear fence. Officers attempted to contact the suspect, who again fled on foot. DFR maintained a visual and assisted with setting a perimeter. The suspect made a final attempt to evade officers but was apprehended. He was arrested for Assault Domestic Violence, Disorderly Conduct Domestic Violence, Criminal Damage to a police vehicle and Aggravated Assault on a Law Enforcement Officer.

RTIC deployed DFR to attempt to locate three juveniles who were reported to have broken into vehicles at the Promenade Mall. A picture of the suspects was obtained during the investigation, and descriptions were relayed over the air. DFR was able to locate them at a nearby restaurant. DFR led officers directly to one of the suspects, and he was taken into custody without further incident.

A report of multiple vehicles racing was called in. The caller stated the vehicles entered a car wash. RTIC deployed DFR. DFR maintained a visual of the car wash until officers arrived to further the investigation.

RTIC deployed DFR in an attempt to locate a vehicle that fled from officers during a traffic stop. The investigation led to a residence on the south side of the city. DFR supported patrol with overwatch, where two occupants of the vehicle were located and arrested for outstanding warrants. A third subject fled the scene on foot but was apprehended shortly thereafter. This subject was arrested for an active felony warrant out of the Department of Corrections.

RTIC reviewed video footage of an injury collision using Safe City intersection cameras. This collision required the extrication of one subject involved in the collision. All footage was uploaded into evidence while the scene was still active, furthering the investigation.

Officers contacted a suspicious person in a well-known crime area of the city. The male subject ran from officers and, in the process, committed criminal trespassing by jumping the fence into an elementary school property. Officers on scene lost sight of the suspect and began to search for him in the area. RTIC deployed DFR and located a male subject running through a nearby alleyway. Real-time intelligence was relayed to officers on scene, who were then able to locate the suspect hiding under a tree and foliage. He was taken into custody for criminal trespassing.

During a traffic enforcement suppression operation, a suspect fled from officers on foot. RTIC was monitoring the operation and utilized DFR to locate the fleeing suspect and provide real-time intelligence to officers where he was hiding. Subsequently, officers were able to establish a perimeter and take the suspect into custody without further incident.

RTIC deployed DFR to attempt to locate a vehicle reported to be driving recklessly entering the city limits. DFR located the vehicle at an intersection entering the city. A visual was maintained as the vehicle drove through parts of the city until patrol officers could contact them to further the investigation.

RTIC deployed DFR to a commercial structure fire to assist if needed. While the building was being evacuated, DFR maintained a visual on the garden area to help ensure there were no people re-entering. Fire Services was notified that this tool was available, and it was requested for assistance as it was needed. On this type of call, the DFR capabilities include overwatch, aerial view for Fire Services to view live, possible hot spots on roof or additional smoke not visible from the ground and locating roof access / mechanical boxes for Fire Services.

RTIC assisted Detectives with identifying a suspect vehicle in a child abuse case. Investigation is ongoing.

RTIC utilized DFR to locate a suspect vehicle in a reported road rage incident. A visual was maintained while the case officer met with the caller. It was determined that no crime was committed and DFR returned to base.

RTIC utilized DFR to locate a suspect during a trespass call for service. Caller stated that the suspect also stole items from the store. A visual was maintained as the suspect tried to leave the area on foot. DFR led patrol units to the current location of the suspect and he was arrested for shoplifting.

RTIC assisted patrol with identifying a vehicle that belonged to the subject of a Welfare Check. The vehicle was located and reported to officers, who were then able to further the investigation.

RTIC utilized DFR to deploy for a reported structure fire. DFR was able to relay information directly to Fire Services before they arrived on scene, providing critical information to assist with their response.

DFR was on scene of an unrelated call when Communications announced a rollover Injury Accident. DFR responded to that scene and updated the responding units with real-time intelligence which included a subject that was severely injured and appeared to have been ejected from the vehicle. Police and Fire Services provided emergency response. Ultimately, one subject was pronounced deceased on-scene and another was arrested and booked into the county jail with forwarding charges of Manslaughter and DUI.

RTIC utilized DFR to deploy for a road rage incident. DFR located the vehicle and RTIC relayed real-time intelligence to responding officers. The vehicle was monitored until officers were able to make contact with it to further the investigation.

RTIC conducted multiple searches for a call of an aggravated assault with a firearm. The caller stated someone was chasing him in a vehicle as he drove away from his residence and pointed a gun at him. RTIC searched recorded footage and was able to locate the scene of the crime. Further searches led
to the identification of the suspect vehicle, but during the investigation, the victim chose not to pursue charges.

March 2026

RTIC monitored a live 911 call regarding a male subject attempting to break into a residence at a trailer park. DFR was deployed and located the suspect before the initial call for service was even completed. Real-time information was relayed to responding officers, providing them with the suspect's exact location. Upon the officer's arrival, the suspect fled on foot and was followed by DFR. A foot pursuit was initiated, and officers took the suspect into custody, all while DFR monitored the scene for safety.

RTIC monitored a domestic violence call for service involving a fight at a local apartment complex. DFR was deployed, arrived on scene before officers, and observed one of the suspects leaving in a vehicle. While maintaining DFR observation of the departing vehicle, RTIC relayed real-time information to responding officers who were able to stop the vehicle and arrest the suspect.

RTIC was monitoring a live 911 call from a witness reporting a person and vehicle matching those involved in a previous shooting. RTIC advised patrol officers and deployed DFR to the scene. Patrol officers arrived on scene and began their investigation with the driver and passenger. While exiting the vehicle, DFR observed the driver drop a bag to the ground near the front of the car. RTIC advised officers of this action. Officers checked the bag and discovered a firearm. Forensic analysis concluded the firearm matched the cartridge casings collected at the earlier shooting scene.

A Gunshot Detection Alert led to the discovery of significant evidence of a shooting, including the discovery of bullet casings, which were entered into the National Integrated Ballistic Information Network to further the investigation.

RTIC utilized PTZ camera footage to assist in identifying and locating a shooting suspect from an incident that occurred in late February. Subsequently, the suspect was located and taken into custody.

LPR cameras were utilized to identify a stolen vehicle. DFR was utilized to track the vehicle returning to the city. RTIC communicated with patrol units, who were able to locate the stolen vehicle and arrest two suspects involved in the theft.

RTIC utilized DFR to respond to a burglary in progress. DFR observed a vehicle leaving the scene via an alleyway. RTIC communicated with responding officers, assisting them with furthering the investigation. Subsequently, one juvenile and one adult were arrested.

RTIC utilized LPR and DFR to search for and locate the suspect vehicle of a hit-and-run collision. One DFR responded to the residence of the registered owner of the suspect vehicle while the other kept a visual on the nearest intersections close to the LPR hits. Subsequently, patrol was able to locate the suspect vehicle and arrest the driver for an active warrant and leaving the scene of a collision.

RTIC utilized DFR to respond to a residential subdivision regarding a vehicle pursuit. DFR was utilized to maintain a safe and secure scene while officers conducted their investigation. Subsequently, one subject was arrested for unlawful flight from law enforcement, failing to obey a traffic control device, and DUI. A second subject was arrested for an active arrest warrant.

RTIC utilized DFR to respond to the call of an aggravated assault at a local business. Although the armed suspect fled the area, witness provided significant information
including the suspect license plate number. RTIC staff utilized DFR, PTZ, and LPR cameras to follow the suspect vehicle to a residence where patrol officers were able to take the suspect into custody without further incident.

February 2026

RTIC identified and located a suspect vehicle involved in a pedestrian hit-and-run. Real-time intelligence provided to officers resulted in the suspect being located and the case resolved.

A reported stolen license plate was entered into the system, allowing partner agencies to receive alerts. An agency in Flagstaff identified the vehicle in their community, assisting the case officer's investigation.

RTIC supported the activation of Gunshot Detection technology, which led to the discovery of significant evidence related to weapons violations. Officers collected cartridge casings that were entered into evidence and analyzed for potential connections to other crimes.

RTIC assisted in locating another missing elderly individual who had left home in a vehicle. The individual was located using LPR cameras and safely reunited with family members.

RTIC staff utilized PTZ and LPR cameras to identify, track, and locate a suspect and their vehicle involved in a shooting that occurred in the downtown area. The license plate of the vehicle was entered as a FLOCK ALERT. Subsequently, a neighboring agency located the vehicle and arrested the driver for driving under the influence. This interaction aided the investigation and led to the identification of the shooter.

Drone First Responder (DFR) was utilized to locate a fleeing aggravated assault suspect. The suspect ran several blocks from the scene of the crime, navigating his way through multiple neighborhoods and backyards. RTIC staff located him with DFR and relayed real-time intelligence to the officers who were searching on foot. This led directly to the apprehension and arrest of the suspect.

RTIC utilized PTZ cameras to investigate a motorcycle versus vehicle collision that resulted in the motorcyclist sustaining serious injuries. The camera footage provided significant evidence (which would not have been identified otherwise) to further the investigation.

January 2026

RTIC staff utilized PTZ and LPR cameras to identify, track, and locate a suspect vehicle involved in a theft of personal property from a local grocery store. Information was provided to the case officer, leading to the identification and arrest of the suspect.

Previously recorded PTZ camera footage was used to identify a suspect vehicle that followed a victim from a local bank after the victim used an ATM. The victim's vehicle was burglarized and money was stolen. This crime trend is commonly referred to as jugging.

PTZ and LPR cameras were used to establish a travel pattern for a vehicle associated with an individual who had an active felony warrant for weapons- related offenses.

When a panic alarm was activated at a local school, RTIC staff used PTZ cameras to monitor entry and exit points. This allowed real-time intelligence to be provided to responding officers before their arrival.

RTIC assisted in locating a missing elderly individual who had left home in a vehicle. The individual was located using LPR cameras and safely reunited with family members.

PTZ cameras were used to identify a group of juveniles at a local park who had purchased vaping products (e-cigarettes) from an individual in a vehicle. The vehicle was identified to further the investigation.

RTIC assisted in identifying a suspect vehicle involved in a pedestrian traffic collision. The vehicle left the scene, but partial license plate information and a witness description helped officers advance the investigation.

During a bank burglary alarm call, PTZ cameras were used to monitor exterior entry and exit points. RTIC staff provided real-time intelligence to responding officers prior to their arrival.

RTIC observed suspicious activity at the City's public library consistent with drug sales. Officers were dispatched, resulting in the arrest of two individuals for multiple crimes and an active warrant.

RTIC assisted in locating a vehicle associated with a domestic violence aggravated assault at a local apartment complex. Travel data indicated the suspect had left the city and was later returning toward the scene where the victim lived. Based on real-time intelligence, officers intercepted the vehicle and took the suspect into custody.

RTIC identified a suspect vehicle involved in a second reported jugging incident, in which a victim's vehicle was burglarized after the victim was followed from an ATM. This case remains an active investigation.

Additional Notable Successes in January 2026

RTIC also assisted with the following:
- Identification of a theft suspect within three minutes of the crime being reported; stolen property was recovered and returned to the owner.
- Identification of a vehicle involved in a robbery.
- Observation of suspicious activity in the downtown public library parking lot, resulting in the arrest of a subject with a U.S. Marshals Service warrant.
- Remote monitoring of a protest at City Hall, reducing the need for an on-site police presence and helping prevent potential escalation.
- Review of recorded footage showing a City employee assisting an individual who had fallen near railroad tracks, allowing the employee's positive actions to be recognized.

Provided by Flock Safety