Transparency Portal
Visit Flock
Casa Grande AZ PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Thu Apr 30 2026

OVERVIEW

Casa Grande AZ PD uses Flock Safety LPR Technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Casa Grande AZ PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Casa Grande AZ PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

POLICIES

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Casa Grande AZ PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
USAGE

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

LPR Cameras

Number of LPR cameras only.

92

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

344,664

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

10,931

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

354
ADDITIONAL INFO

Safe City Success Stories

The Casa Grande Police Department is committed to transparency, accountability, and the responsible use of technology. The Safe City Success Stories below provide real-world examples of how our Real Time Information Center (RTIC) and Flock Safety technologies are used to support investigations, locate missing persons, enhance officer safety, and protect our community. This section is updated regularly and displays recent activity to demonstrate the measurable impact of the Safe City Initiative.

These examples represent only a small snapshot of RTIC activity and outcomes and are not a comprehensive list of all cases or incidents where Safe City technology has assisted. Many uses occur daily and may not be included due to investigative sensitivity, case status, or the routine nature of the assistance provided.

April 2026

RTIC deployed DFR in an attempt to locate a vehicle that fled from officers during a traffic stop. The investigation led to a residence on the south side of the city. DFR supported patrol with overwatch, where two occupants of the vehicle were located and arrested for outstanding warrants. A third subject fled the scene on foot but was apprehended shortly thereafter. This subject was arrested for an active felony warrant out of the Department of Corrections.

RTIC reviewed video footage of an injury collision using Safe City intersection cameras. This collision required the extrication of one subject involved in the collision. All footage was uploaded into evidence while the scene was still active, furthering the investigation.

Officers contacted a suspicious person in a well-known crime area of the city. The male subject ran from officers and, in the process, committed criminal trespassing by jumping the fence into an elementary school property. Officers on scene lost sight of the suspect and began to search for him in the area. RTIC deployed DFR and located a male subject running through a nearby alleyway. Real-time intelligence was relayed to officers on scene, who were then able to locate the suspect hiding under a tree and foliage. He was taken into custody for criminal trespassing.

During a traffic enforcement suppression operation, a suspect fled from officers on foot. RTIC was monitoring the operation and utilized DFR to locate the fleeing suspect and provide real-time intelligence to officers where he was hiding. Subsequently, officers were able to establish a perimeter and take the suspect into custody without further incident.

RTIC deployed DFR to attempt to locate a vehicle reported to be driving recklessly entering the city limits. DFR located the vehicle at an intersection entering the city. A visual was maintained as the vehicle drove through parts of the city until patrol officers could contact them to further the investigation.

RTIC deployed DFR to a commercial structure fire to assist if needed. While the building was being evacuated, DFR maintained a visual on the garden area to help ensure there were no people re-entering. Fire Services was notified that this tool was available, and it was requested for assistance as it was needed. On this type of call, the DFR capabilities include overwatch, aerial view for Fire Services to view live, possible hot spots on roof or additional smoke not visible from the ground and locating roof access / mechanical boxes for Fire Services.

RTIC assisted Detectives with identifying a suspect vehicle in a child abuse case. Investigation is ongoing.

RTIC utilized DFR to locate a suspect vehicle in a reported road rage incident. A visual was maintained while the case officer met with the caller. It was determined that no crime was committed and DFR returned to base.

RTIC utilized DFR to locate a suspect during a trespass call for service. Caller stated that the suspect also stole items from the store. A visual was maintained as the suspect tried to leave the area on foot. DFR led patrol units to the current location of the suspect and he was arrested for shoplifting.

RTIC assisted patrol with identifying a vehicle that belonged to the subject of a Welfare Check. The vehicle was located and reported to officers, who were then able to further the investigation.

RTIC utilized DFR to deploy for a reported structure fire. DFR was able to relay information directly to Fire Services before they arrived on scene, providing critical information to assist with their response.

DFR was on scene of an unrelated call when Communications announced a rollover Injury Accident. DFR responded to that scene and updated the responding units with real-time intelligence which included a subject that was severely injured and appeared to have been ejected from the vehicle. Police and Fire Services provided emergency response. Ultimately, one subject was pronounced deceased on-scene and another was arrested and booked into the county jail with forwarding charges of Manslaughter and DUI.

RTIC utilized DFR to deploy for a road rage incident. DFR located the vehicle and RTIC relayed real-time intelligence to responding officers. The vehicle was monitored until officers were able to make contact with it to further the investigation.

RTIC conducted multiple searches for a call of an aggravated assault with a firearm. The caller stated someone was chasing him in a vehicle as he drove away from his residence and pointed a gun at him. RTIC searched recorded footage and was able to locate the scene of the crime. Further searches led
to the identification of the suspect vehicle, but during the investigation, the victim chose not to pursue charges.

March 2026

RTIC monitored a live 911 call regarding a male subject attempting to break into a residence at a trailer park. DFR was deployed and located the suspect before the initial call for service was even completed. Real-time information was relayed to responding officers, providing them with the suspect's exact location. Upon the officer's arrival, the suspect fled on foot and was followed by DFR. A foot pursuit was initiated, and officers took the suspect into custody, all while DFR monitored the scene for safety.

RTIC monitored a domestic violence call for service involving a fight at a local apartment complex. DFR was deployed, arrived on scene before officers, and observed one of the suspects leaving in a vehicle. While maintaining DFR observation of the departing vehicle, RTIC relayed real-time information to responding officers who were able to stop the vehicle and arrest the suspect.

RTIC was monitoring a live 911 call from a witness reporting a person and vehicle matching those involved in a previous shooting. RTIC advised patrol officers and deployed DFR to the scene. Patrol officers arrived on scene and began their investigation with the driver and passenger. While exiting the vehicle, DFR observed the driver drop a bag to the ground near the front of the car. RTIC advised officers of this action. Officers checked the bag and discovered a firearm. Forensic analysis concluded the firearm matched the cartridge casings collected at the earlier shooting scene.

A Gunshot Detection Alert led to the discovery of significant evidence of a shooting, including the discovery of bullet casings, which were entered into the National Integrated Ballistic Information Network to further the investigation.

RTIC utilized PTZ camera footage to assist in identifying and locating a shooting suspect from an incident that occurred in late February. Subsequently, the suspect was located and taken into custody.

LPR cameras were utilized to identify a stolen vehicle. DFR was utilized to track the vehicle returning to the city. RTIC communicated with patrol units, who were able to locate the stolen vehicle and arrest two suspects involved in the theft.

RTIC utilized DFR to respond to a burglary in progress. DFR observed a vehicle leaving the scene via an alleyway. RTIC communicated with responding officers, assisting them with furthering the investigation. Subsequently, one juvenile and one adult were arrested.

RTIC utilized LPR and DFR to search for and locate the suspect vehicle of a hit-and-run collision. One DFR responded to the residence of the registered owner of the suspect vehicle while the other kept a visual on the nearest intersections close to the LPR hits. Subsequently, patrol was able to locate the suspect vehicle and arrest the driver for an active warrant and leaving the scene of a collision.

RTIC utilized DFR to respond to a residential subdivision regarding a vehicle pursuit. DFR was utilized to maintain a safe and secure scene while officers conducted their investigation. Subsequently, one subject was arrested for unlawful flight from law enforcement, failing to obey a traffic control device, and DUI. A second subject was arrested for an active arrest warrant.

RTIC utilized DFR to respond to the call of an aggravated assault at a local business. Although the armed suspect fled the area, witness provided significant information
including the suspect license plate number. RTIC staff utilized DFR, PTZ, and LPR cameras to follow the suspect vehicle to a residence where patrol officers were able to take the suspect into custody without further incident.

February 2026

RTIC identified and located a suspect vehicle involved in a pedestrian hit-and-run. Real-time intelligence provided to officers resulted in the suspect being located and the case resolved.

A reported stolen license plate was entered into the system, allowing partner agencies to receive alerts. An agency in Flagstaff identified the vehicle in their community, assisting the case officer's investigation.

RTIC supported the activation of Gunshot Detection technology, which led to the discovery of significant evidence related to weapons violations. Officers collected cartridge casings that were entered into evidence and analyzed for potential connections to other crimes.

RTIC assisted in locating another missing elderly individual who had left home in a vehicle. The individual was located using LPR cameras and safely reunited with family members.

RTIC staff utilized PTZ and LPR cameras to identify, track, and locate a suspect and their vehicle involved in a shooting that occurred in the downtown area. The license plate of the vehicle was entered as a FLOCK ALERT. Subsequently, a neighboring agency located the vehicle and arrested the driver for driving under the influence. This interaction aided the investigation and led to the identification of the shooter.

Drone First Responder (DFR) was utilized to locate a fleeing aggravated assault suspect. The suspect ran several blocks from the scene of the crime, navigating his way through multiple neighborhoods and backyards. RTIC staff located him with DFR and relayed real-time intelligence to the officers who were searching on foot. This led directly to the apprehension and arrest of the suspect.

RTIC utilized PTZ cameras to investigate a motorcycle versus vehicle collision that resulted in the motorcyclist sustaining serious injuries. The camera footage provided significant evidence (which would not have been identified otherwise) to further the investigation.

January 2026

RTIC staff utilized PTZ and LPR cameras to identify, track, and locate a suspect vehicle involved in a theft of personal property from a local grocery store. Information was provided to the case officer, leading to the identification and arrest of the suspect.

Previously recorded PTZ camera footage was used to identify a suspect vehicle that followed a victim from a local bank after the victim used an ATM. The victim's vehicle was burglarized and money was stolen. This crime trend is commonly referred to as jugging.

PTZ and LPR cameras were used to establish a travel pattern for a vehicle associated with an individual who had an active felony warrant for weapons- related offenses.

When a panic alarm was activated at a local school, RTIC staff used PTZ cameras to monitor entry and exit points. This allowed real-time intelligence to be provided to responding officers before their arrival.

RTIC assisted in locating a missing elderly individual who had left home in a vehicle. The individual was located using LPR cameras and safely reunited with family members.

PTZ cameras were used to identify a group of juveniles at a local park who had purchased vaping products (e-cigarettes) from an individual in a vehicle. The vehicle was identified to further the investigation.

RTIC assisted in identifying a suspect vehicle involved in a pedestrian traffic collision. The vehicle left the scene, but partial license plate information and a witness description helped officers advance the investigation.

During a bank burglary alarm call, PTZ cameras were used to monitor exterior entry and exit points. RTIC staff provided real-time intelligence to responding officers prior to their arrival.

RTIC observed suspicious activity at the City's public library consistent with drug sales. Officers were dispatched, resulting in the arrest of two individuals for multiple crimes and an active warrant.

RTIC assisted in locating a vehicle associated with a domestic violence aggravated assault at a local apartment complex. Travel data indicated the suspect had left the city and was later returning toward the scene where the victim lived. Based on real-time intelligence, officers intercepted the vehicle and took the suspect into custody.

RTIC identified a suspect vehicle involved in a second reported jugging incident, in which a victim's vehicle was burglarized after the victim was followed from an ATM. This case remains an active investigation.

Additional Notable Successes  January 2026

RTIC also assisted with the following:
- Identification of a theft suspect within three minutes of the crime being reported; stolen property was recovered and returned to the owner.
- Identification of a vehicle involved in a robbery.
- Observation of suspicious activity in the downtown public library parking lot, resulting in the arrest of a subject with a U.S. Marshals Service warrant.
- Remote monitoring of a protest at City Hall, reducing the need for an on-site police presence and helping prevent potential escalation.
- Review of recorded footage showing a City employee assisting an individual who had fallen near railroad tracks, allowing the employee's positive actions to be recognized.

Provided by Flock Safety