--- page 1 ---
Flock Group Inc.                                                                                                                                                     Order Form
San Mateo PD - Phase 1
2668107910
FLOCK GROUP INC.
SERVICES AGREEMENT
ORDER FORM
This Order Form together with the Terms (as defined herein) describe the relationship between Flock Group Inc. (“Flock”) and
the customer identified below (“Customer”) (each of Flock and Customer, a ”Party”). This order form (“Order Form”) hereby
incorporates and includes the “GOVERNMENT AGENCY CUSTOMER AGREEMENT” attached (the “Terms”) which describe and set
forth the general legal terms governing the relationship (collectively, the "Agreement" ). The Terms contain, among other things,
warranty disclaimers, liability limitations and use limitations.
The Agreement will become effective when this Order Form is executed by both Parties (the “Effective Date”).
Customer:
Contact:
Address:
Phone:
E-Mail:
Usage Fees:  $24000 per Year (the “Payment Period”)
Number of Cameras: 12
Initial Term: 24 Months
Renewal Term: 12 Months
Installation Fee (one-time) $0
Pole Fee (one-time) $0
Billing Contact: 
(if different than above)
Expected Payment Method:
Lt. Todd Mefford
200 Franklin Parkway, San Mateo, 
CA 94403
(650)522-7608
tmefford@cityofsanmateo.org
Check
San Mateo PD
By executing this Order Form, Customer represents and warrants that it has read and agrees all of the terms and
conditions contained in the Terms attached. The Parties have  executed this Agreement as of the dates set forth below.
Flock Group Inc
Customer:
By:
Name:
Title: 
Date: 
By:
Name:
Title: 
Date: 
Garrett Langley
CEO
07/29/2020
Todd Mefford
08/17/2020
Lieutenant
Document Ref: N4JAT-XUHHU-6AJ2L-VWSQC
Page 1 of 13


--- page 2 ---
Flock Group Inc.                                                                                                                                                     Order Form
San Mateo PD - Phase 1
2668107910
EXHIBIT A
Statement of Work
Installation of Flock Camera on existing pole or Flock-supplied pole if required
Document Ref: N4JAT-XUHHU-6AJ2L-VWSQC
Page 2 of 13


--- page 3 ---
GOVERNMENT AGENCY CUSTOMER AGREEMENT
This Government Agency Agreement (this “Agreement”) is entered into by and between Flock Group,  
Inc. with a place of business at 1170 Howell Mill Rd NW Suite 210, Atlanta, GA 30318 (“Flock”) and the police 
department or government agency identified in the signature block below (“Agency”) (each a “Party,” and together, 
the “Parties”).
RECITALS
WHEREAS, Flock offers a software and hardware solution for automatic license plate detection through 
Flock’s technology platform (the “Flock Service”), and upon detection, the Flock Service creates images and 
recordings of suspect vehicles (“Footage”) and can provide notifications to Agency upon the instructions of Non-
Agency End User (“Notifications”);
WHEREAS, Agency desires to purchase, use and/or have installed access to the Flock Service in order to 
create, view, search and archive Footage and receive Notifications, including those from non-Agency users of the 
Flock System (where there is an investigative purpose) such as schools, neighborhood homeowners associations, 
businesses, and individual users;
WHEREAS, because Footage is stored for no longer than 30 days in compliance with Flock’s records 
retention policy, Agency is responsible for extracting, downloading and archiving Footage from the Flock System 
on its own storage devices; and 
WHEREAS, Flock desires to provide Agency the Flock Service and any access thereto, subject to the 
terms and conditions of this Agreement, solely for the purpose of crime awareness and prevention by police 
departments and archiving for evidence gathering (“Purpose”).    
AGREEMENT
NOW, THEREFORE, Flock and Agency agree as follows and further agree to incorporate the Recitals 
into this Agreement. 
1. DEFINITIONS
Certain capitalized terms, not otherwise defined herein, have the meanings set forth or cross-referenced in 
this Section 1.
1.1 “Authorized End User” shall mean any individual employees, agents, or contractors of Agency accessing or 
using the Services through the Web Interface, under the rights granted to Agency pursuant to this Agreement.
1.2 "Agency Data” will mean the data, media and content provided by Agency through the Services. For the 
avoidance of doubt, the Agency Content will include the Footage and geolocation information and environmental 
data collected by sensors built into the Units.  
1.3 “Documentation” will mean text and/or graphical documentation, whether in electronic or printed format, that 
describe the features, functions and operation of the Services which are provided by Flock to Agency in accordance 
with the terms of this Agreement.
1.4 “Embedded Software” will mean the software and/or firmware embedded or preinstalled on the Hardware. 
1.5 “Flock IP” will mean the Flock Services, the Documentation, the Hardware, the Embedded Software, the 
Installation Services, and any and all intellectual property therein or otherwise provided to Agency and/or its 
Authorized End Users in connection with the foregoing. 
1.6 “Footage” means still images and/or video captured by the Hardware in the course of and provided via the 
Services.
Document Ref: N4JAT-XUHHU-6AJ2L-VWSQC
Page 3 of 13


--- page 4 ---
1.7 “Hardware” shall mean the Flock Gate Cameras and any other physical elements that interact with the 
Embedded Software and the Web Interface to provide the Services. The term “Hardware” excludes the Embedded 
Software. 
1.8 “Installation Services” means the services provided by Flock regarding the installation, placements and 
configuration of the Hardware, pursuant to the Statement of Work attached hereto.  
1.9 “Flock Services” means the provision, via the Web Interface, of Flock’s software application for automatic 
license plate detection, searching image records, and sharing Footage. 
1.10 “Non-Agency End User” means a Flock’s non-Agency customer that has elected to give Agency access to its 
data in the Flock System.
1.11 “Non-Agency End User Data” means the Footage, geolocation data, environmental data and/or Notifications 
of a Non-Agency End User.
1.12 “Unit(s)” shall mean the Hardware together with the Embedded Software. 
1.13 “Web Interface” means the website(s) or application(s) through which Agency and its Authorized End Users 
can access the Services in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
2. FLOCK SERVICES AND SUPPORT
2.1 Provision of Access. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, Flock hereby grants to Agency a non-exclusive, 
non-transferable right to access the features and functions of the Flock Services via the Web Interface during the 
Service Term and No-Fee Term, solely for the Authorized End Users. The Footage will be available for Agency’s 
designated administrator, listed on the Order Form, and any Authorized End Users  to access via the Web Interface 
for 30 days.  Authorized End Users will be required to sign up for an account, and select a password and username 
(“User ID”). Flock will also provide Agency the Documentation to be used in accessing and using the Flock 
Services. Agency shall be responsible for all acts and omissions of Authorized End Users, and any act or omission 
by an Authorized End User which, if undertaken by Agency, would constitute a breach of this Agreement, shall be 
deemed a breach of this Agreement by Agency.  Agency shall undertake reasonable efforts to make all Authorized 
End Users aware of the provisions of this Agreement as applicable to such Authorized End User’s use of the Flock 
Services and shall cause Authorized End Users to comply with such provisions. Flock may use the services of one or 
more third parties to deliver any part of the Flock Services, including without limitation using a third party to host 
the Web Interface which the Flock Services make available to Agency and Authorized End Users. Flock will pass-
through any warranties that Flock receives from its then current third-party service provider to the extent that such 
warranties can be provided to Agency. SUCH WARRANTIES, AS PROVIDED AS HONORED BY SUCH THIRD 
PARTIES, ARE THE CUSTOMER’S SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE REMEDY AND FLOCK’S SOLE AND 
EXCLUSIVE LIABILITY WITH REGARD TO SUCH THIRD-PARTY SERVICES, INCLUDING WITHOUT 
LIMITATION HOSTING THE WEB INTERFACE. To the extent practicable, Agency agrees to comply with any 
acceptable use policies and other terms of any third-party service provider that are provided or otherwise made 
available to Agency from time to time. 
2.2 Embedded Software License. Subject to all terms of this Agreement, Flock grants Agency a limited, non-
exclusive, non-transferable, non-sublicensable (except to the Authorized End Users), revocable right to use  the 
Embedded Software as installed on the Hardware by Flock; in each case, solely as necessary for Agency to use the 
Flock Services.
2.3 Documentation License. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, Flock hereby grants to Agency a non-
exclusive, non-transferable right and license to use the Documentation during the Service Term for Agency’s 
internal purposes in connection with its use of the Flock Services as contemplated herein.
Document Ref: N4JAT-XUHHU-6AJ2L-VWSQC
Page 4 of 13


--- page 5 ---
2.4 Usage Restrictions. The purpose for usage of the equipment, the Services and support, and the Flock IP is solely 
to facilitate gathering evidence that could be used in a criminal investigation by the appropriate government agency 
and not for tracking activities that the system is not designed to capture (“Permitted Purpose”). Agency will not, and 
will not permit any Authorized End Users to, (i) copy or duplicate any of the Flock IP; (ii) decompile, disassemble, 
reverse engineer or otherwise attempt to obtain or perceive the source code from which any software component of 
any of the Flock IP is compiled or interpreted, or apply any other process or procedure to derive the source code of 
any software included in the Flock IP, or attempt to do any of the foregoing, and Agency acknowledges that nothing 
in this Agreement will be construed to grant Agency any right to obtain or use such source code; (iii) modify, alter, 
tamper with or repair any of the Flock IP, or create any derivative product from any of the foregoing, or attempt to 
do any of the foregoing, except with the prior written consent of Flock; (vi) interfere or attempt to interfere in any 
manner with the functionality or proper working of any of the Flock IP; (v) remove, obscure, or alter any notice of 
any intellectual property or proprietary right appearing on or contained within any of the Application IP; (vii) use 
the Flock Services for timesharing or service bureau purposes or otherwise for the benefit of a third party or any 
purpose other than the Purpose; (viii) use the Services, support, equipment and the Flock IP for anything other than 
the Permitted Purpose; or (ix) assign, sublicense, sell, resell, lease, rent or otherwise transfer or convey, or pledge as 
security or otherwise encumber, Agency’s rights under Sections 2.1, 2.2, or 2.3. 
2.5 Retained Rights; Ownership.  As between the Parties, subject to the rights granted in this Agreement, Flock 
and its licensors retain all right, title and interest in and to the Flock IP and its components, and Agency 
acknowledges that it neither owns nor acquires any additional rights in and to the foregoing not expressly granted by 
this Agreement. Agency further acknowledges that Flock retains the right to use the foregoing for any purpose in 
Flock’s sole discretion.  There are no implied rights.  
2.6 Suspension. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, Flock may temporarily suspend 
Agency’s and any Authorized End User’s access to any portion or all of the Flock IP if (i) Flock reasonably 
determines that (a) there is a threat or attack on any of the Flock IP; (b) Agency’s or any Authorized End User’s use 
of the Flock Service disrupts or poses a security risk to the Flock Service or any other customer or vendor of Flock; 
(c) Agency or any Authorized End User is/are using the Flock IP for fraudulent or illegal activities; (d) Flock’s 
provision of the Flock Services to Agency or any Authorized End User is prohibited by applicable law; or (e) any 
vendor of Flock has suspended or terminated Flock’s access to or use of any third party services or products required 
to enable Agency to access the Flock   (each such suspension, in accordance with this Section 2.6, a “Service 
Suspension”). Flock will make commercially reasonable efforts, circumstances permitting, to provide written notice 
of any Service Suspension to Agency (including notices sent to Flock’s registered email address) and to provide 
updates regarding resumption of access to the Flock IP following any Service Suspension. Flock will use 
commercially reasonable efforts to resume providing access to the Application Service as soon as reasonably 
possible after the event giving rise to the Service Suspension is cured.  Flock will have no liability for any damage, 
liabilities, losses (including any loss of data or profits) or any other consequences that Agency or any Authorized 
End User may incur as a result of a Service Suspension. To the extent that the service suspension is not caused by 
Agency’s direct actions or by the actions of parties associated with the Agency, the expiration of the Term will be 
tolled by the duration of any suspension (for any continuous suspension lasting at least one full day).
2.7 Installation Services. 
2.7.1 Designated Locations. Prior to performing the physical installation of the Units, Flock shall advise 
Agency on the location and positioning of the Units for optimal license plate image capture, as conditions and location 
allow. Flock and Agency must mutually agree on the location (mounting site or pole), position and angle of the Units 
(each Unit location so designated by Agency, a “Designated Location”). Flock shall have no liability to Agency 
resulting from any poor performance, functionality or Footage resulting from or otherwise relating to the Designated 
Locations or delay in installation due to Agency’s delay in identifying the choices for the Designated Locations, in 
ordering and/or having the Designated Location ready for installation including having all electrical work preinstalled 
and permits ready. Designated Locations that are suggested by Flock and accepted by Agency without alteration will 
be known as Flock Designated Locations. After a deployment plan with Designated Locations and equipment has 
been agreed upon by both Flock and the Agency, any subsequent changes to the deployment plan (“Reinstalls”) driven 
by Agency's request will incur a charge for Flock’s then-current list price for Reinstalls,  as listed in the then-current 
Reinstall Policy (available at https://www.flocksafety.com/reinstall-fee-schedule) and any equipment charges. These 
changes include but are not limited to camera re-positioning, adjusting of camera mounting, re-angling, removing 
Document Ref: N4JAT-XUHHU-6AJ2L-VWSQC
Page 5 of 13


--- page 6 ---
foliage, camera replacement, changes to heights of poles, regardless of whether the need for Reinstalls related to 
vandalism, weather, theft, lack of criminal activity in view, and the like.
2.7.2 Agency’s Installation Obligations. Agency agrees to allow Flock and its agents reasonable access in 
and near the Designated  Locations at all reasonable times upon reasonable notice for the purpose of performing the 
installation work, The “Agency Installation Obligations” include, to the extent required by the Deployment Plan, but 
are not limited to electrical work to provide a reliable source of 120V AC power that follow Flock guidelines and 
comply with local regulations if adequate solar exposure is not available. Agency is solely responsible for (i) any 
permits or associated costs, and managing the permitting process; (ii)  any federal, state or local taxes including 
property, license, privilege, sales, use, excise, gross receipts or other similar taxes which may now or hereafter become 
applicable to, measured by or imposed upon or with respect to the installation of the Hardware, its use, or (iii) any 
other services performed in connection with installation of the Hardware. Any fees payable to Flock exclude the 
foregoing. Without being obligated or taking any responsibility for the foregoing., Flock may pay and invoice related 
costs to Customer if Customer did not address them or a third party requires Flock to pay.  Agency represents and 
warrants that it has all necessary right title and authority and hereby authorizes Flock to install the Hardware at the 
Designated Locations and to make any necessary inspections or tests in connection with such installation.
2.7.3 Flock’s Installation Obligations. The Hardware shall be installed in a workmanlike manner in 
accordance with Flock’s standard installation procedures, and the installation will be completed within a reasonable 
time from the time that the Designated Locations are selected by Agency. Following the initial installation of the 
Hardware and any subsequent Reinstalls or maintenance operations, Flock’s obligation to perform installation work 
shall cease; however, Flock will continue to monitor the performance of the Units and receive access to the Footage 
for a period of 3 business days for maintenance purposes. Customer can opt out of Flock’s access in the preceding 
sentence, which would waive Flock’s responsibility to ensure such action was successful. Agency understands and 
agrees that the Flock Services will not function without the Hardware. Labor may be provided by Flock or a third 
party.
2.7.4 Security Interest. The Hardware shall remain the personal property of Flock and will be removed upon 
the termination or expiration of this Agreement. Agency agrees to perform all acts which may be necessary to assure 
the retention of title of the Hardware by Flock. Should Agency default in any payment for the Flock Services or any 
part thereof or offer to sell or auction the Hardware, then Agency authorizes and empowers Flock to remove the 
Hardware or any part thereof. Such removal, if made by Flock, shall not be deemed a waiver of Flock’s rights to any 
damages Flock may sustain as a result of Agency’s default and Flock shall have the right to enforce any other legal 
remedy or right. 
2.8 Hazardous Conditions. Unless otherwise stated in the Agreement, Flock’s price for its services under this 
Agreement does not contemplate work in any areas that contain hazardous materials, or other hazardous conditions, 
including, without limit, asbestos.  In the event any such hazardous materials are discovered in the designated 
locations in which Flock is to perform services under this Agreement, Flock shall have the right to cease work 
immediately in the area affected until such materials are removed or rendered harmless.  Any additional expenses 
incurred by Flock as a result of the discovery or presence of hazardous material or hazardous conditions shall be the 
responsibility of Agency and shall be paid promptly upon billing.
2.9 Support Services. Subject to the payment of fees, Flock shall monitor the performance and functionality of 
Flock Services and may, from time to time, advise Agency on changes to the Flock Services, Installation Services, 
or the Designated Locations which may improve the performance or functionality of the Services or may improve 
the quality of the Footage. The work, its timing, and the fees payable relating to such work shall be agreed by the 
Parties prior to any alterations to or changes of the Services or the Designated Locations (“Monitoring Services”). 
Subject to the terms hereof, Flock will provide Agency with reasonable technical and on-site support and 
maintenance services (“On-Site Services”) in-person or by email at hello@flocksafety.com.  Flock will use 
commercially reasonable efforts to respond to requests for support.
2.10 Special Terms. From time to time, Flock may offer certain “Special Terms” related to guarantees, service and 
support which are indicated in the proposal and on the order form and will become part of this Agreement.
Document Ref: N4JAT-XUHHU-6AJ2L-VWSQC
Page 6 of 13


--- page 7 ---
3. AGENCY RESTRICTIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
3.1 Agency Obligations. Agency agrees to provide Flock with accurate, complete, and updated registration 
information.  Agency may not select as its User ID a name that Agency does not have the right to use, or another 
person’s name with the intent to impersonate that person.  Agency may not transfer its account to anyone else 
without prior written permission of Flock.  Agency will not share its account or password with anyone, and must 
protect the security of its account and password.  Agency is responsible for any activity associated with its account. 
Agency shall be responsible for obtaining and maintaining any equipment and ancillary services needed to connect 
to, access or otherwise use the Services.  Agency will, at its own expense, provide assistance to Flock, including, but 
not limited to, by means of access to, and use of, Agency facilities, as well as by means of assistance from Agency 
personnel, to the limited extent any of the foregoing may be reasonably necessary to enable Flock to perform its 
obligations hereunder, including, without limitation, any obligations with respect to Support Services or any 
Installation Services.
3.2 Agency Representations and Warranties. Agency represents, covenants, and warrants that Agency will use 
the Services only in compliance with this Agreement and all applicable laws and regulations, including but not 
limited to any laws relating to the recording or sharing of video, photo, or audio content and retention thereof.   To 
the extent allowed by the governing law of the state mentioned in Section 10.6, or if no state is mentioned in Section 
10.6, by the law of the State of Georgia, Agency hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Flock against any 
damages, losses, liabilities, settlements and expenses, including without limitation costs and attorneys’ fees, in 
connection with any claim or action that arises from an alleged violation of the foregoing, Agency’s Installation 
Obligations, or otherwise from Agency’s use of the Services, Hardware and any Software, including any claim that 
such actions violate any applicable law or third party right.  Although Flock has no obligation to monitor Agency’s 
use of the Services, Flock may do so and may prohibit any use of the Services it believes may be (or alleged to be) 
in violation of the foregoing.
4. CONFIDENTIALITY; AGENCY DATA; NON-AGENCY DATA
4.1 Confidentiality. Each Party (the “Receiving Party”) understands that the other Party (the “Disclosing Party”) 
has disclosed or may disclose business, technical or financial information relating to the Disclosing Party’s business 
(hereinafter referred to as “Proprietary Information” of the Disclosing Party).  Proprietary Information of Flock is 
non-public information including but not limited to features, functionality, designs, user interfaces, trade secrets, 
intellectual property, business plans, marketing plans, works of authorship, hardware, customer lists and 
requirements, and performance of the Flock Services.  Proprietary Information of Agency includes non-public 
Agency Data, Non-Agency End User Data, and data provided by Agency or a Non-Agency End User to Flock or 
collected by Flock via the Unit, including the Footage, to enable the provision of the Services.  The Receiving Party 
shall not disclose, use, transmit, inform or make available to any entity, person or body any of the Proprietary 
Information, except as a necessary part of performing its obligations hereunder, and shall take all such actions as are 
reasonably necessary and appropriate to preserve and protect the Proprietary Information and the parties’ respective 
rights therein, at all times exercising at least a reasonable level of care.   Each party agrees to restrict access to the 
Proprietary Information of the other party to those employees or agents who require access in order to perform 
hereunder.  The Receiving Party agrees: (i) to take the same security precautions to protect against disclosure or 
unauthorized use of such Proprietary Information that the party takes with its own proprietary information, but in no 
event will a party apply less than reasonable precautions to protect such Proprietary Information, and (ii) not to use 
(except in performance of the Services or as otherwise permitted herein) or divulge to any third person any such 
Proprietary Information.  Flock’s use of the Proprietary Information may include processing the Proprietary 
Information to send Agency Notifications or alerts, such as when a car exits Agency’s neighborhood, or to analyze 
the data collected to identify motion or other events. 
The Disclosing Party agrees that the foregoing shall not apply with respect to any information that the Receiving 
Party can document (a) is or becomes generally available to the public, or (b) was in its possession or known by 
Receiving Party prior to receipt from the Disclosing Party, or (c) was rightfully disclosed to Receiving Party without 
restriction by a third party, or (d) was independently developed without use of any Proprietary Information of the 
Disclosing Party.  
Document Ref: N4JAT-XUHHU-6AJ2L-VWSQC
Page 7 of 13


--- page 8 ---
Nothing in this Agreement will prevent the Receiving Party from disclosing the Proprietary Information pursuant to 
any subpoena, summons, judicial order or other judicial or governmental process, provided that the Receiving Party 
gives the Disclosing Party reasonable prior notice of such disclosure to obtain a protective order or otherwise oppose 
the disclosure.  For clarity, Flock may access, use, preserve and/or disclose the Footage to law enforcement 
authorities, government officials, and/or third parties, if legally required to do so or if Flock has a good faith belief 
that such access, use, preservation or disclosure is reasonably necessary to: (a) comply with a legal process or 
request; (b) enforce this Agreement, including investigation of any potential violation thereof; (c) detect, prevent or 
otherwise address security, fraud or technical issues; or (d) protect the rights, property or safety of Flock, its users, a 
third party, or the public as required or permitted by law, including respond to an emergency situation.  Having 
received notice prior to data being deleted, Flock may store Footage in order to comply with a valid court order but 
such retained Footage will not be retrievable without a valid court order.
4.2 Agency and Non-Agency End User Data. As between Flock and Agency, all right, title and interest in the 
Agency Data and Non-Agency End User Data, belong to and are retained solely by Agency.  Agency hereby grants 
to Flock a limited, non-exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide license to use the Agency Data and Non-Agency End 
User Data and perform all acts with respect to the Agency Data and Non-Agency End User Data as may be 
necessary for Flock to provide the Flock Services to Agency, including without limitation the Support Services set 
forth in Section 2.9 above, and a non-exclusive, perpetual, irrevocable, worldwide, royalty-free, fully paid license to 
use, reproduce, modify and distribute the Agency Data and Non-Agency End User Data as a part of the Aggregated 
Data (as defined in Section 4.4 below).  As between Flock and Agency, Agency is solely responsible for the 
accuracy, quality, integrity, legality, reliability, and appropriateness of all Agency Data and Non-Agency End User 
Data.  As between Agency and Non-Agency End Users that have prescribed access of Footage to Agency, each of 
Agency and Non-Agency End Users will share all right, title and interest in the Non-Agency End User Data. This 
Agreement does not by itself make any Non-Agency End User Data the sole property or the Proprietary Information 
of Agency. Flock will automatically delete Footage older than 30 days.  Agency has a 30-day window to view, save 
and/or transmit Footage to the relevant government agency prior to its deletion.
4.3 Feedback. If Agency provides any suggestions, ideas, enhancement requests, feedback, recommendations or 
other information relating to the subject matter hereunder, Agency hereby assigns (and will cause its agents and 
representatives to assign) to Flock all right, title and interest (including intellectual property rights) with respect to or 
resulting from any of the foregoing.
4.4 Aggregated Data. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, Flock shall have the right to 
collect and analyze data that does not refer to or identify Agency or any individuals or de-identifies such data and 
other information relating to the provision, use and performance of various aspects of the Services and related 
systems and technologies (including, without limitation, information concerning Agency Data and data derived 
therefrom).  Agency acknowledges that Flock will be compiling anonymized and/or aggregated data based on 
Agency Data and Non-Agency End User Data input into the Services (the “Aggregated Data”).  Agency hereby 
grants Flock a non-exclusive, worldwide, perpetual, royalty-free right and license (during and after the Service Term 
hereof) to (i) use and distribute such Aggregated Data to improve and enhance the Services and for other marketing, 
development, diagnostic and corrective purposes, other Flock offerings, and crime prevention efforts, and (ii) 
disclose the Agency Data and Non-Agency End User Data (both inclusive of any Footage) to enable law 
enforcement monitoring against law enforcement hotlists as well as provide Footage search access to law 
enforcement for investigative purposes only.  No rights or licenses are granted except as expressly set forth herein.
5. PAYMENT OF FEES
5.1 Fees. Agency will pay Flock the first Usage Fee, the Installation Fee and any Hardware Fee (defined on the 
Order Form, together the “Initial Fees”) as set forth on the Order Form on or before the 7th day following the 
Effective Date of this Agreement.  Flock is not obligated to commence the Installation Services unless and until the 
Initial Fees have been made and shall have no liability resulting from any delay related thereto.  Agency shall pay 
the ongoing Usage Fees set forth on the Order Form with such Usage Fees due and payable thirty (30) days in 
advance of each Payment Period. All payments will be made by either ACH, check, or credit card.  The first month 
of Services corresponding to the first Usage Fee payment will begin upon the first installation.  For 10+-camera 
Document Ref: N4JAT-XUHHU-6AJ2L-VWSQC
Page 8 of 13


--- page 9 ---
offerings where only some of the cameras are installed at the first installation and additional cameras will be 
installed later, prorated Usage Fees corresponding to the then-installed cameras will be invoiced to Agency 
immediately after installation and to the later camera installation(s) subsequently invoiced. 
5.2 Changes to Fees. Flock reserves the right to change the Fees or applicable charges and to institute new charges 
and Fees at the end of the Initial Term or any Renewal Term, upon sixty (60) days’ notice prior to the end of such 
Initial Term or Renewal Term (as applicable) to Agency (which may be sent by email).  If Agency believes that 
Flock has billed Agency incorrectly, Agency must contact Flock no later than sixty (60) days after the closing date 
on the first billing statement in which the error or problem appeared, in order to receive an adjustment or credit.  
Inquiries should be directed to Flock’s customer support department. Agency acknowledges and agrees that a failure 
to contact Flock within this sixty (60) day period will serve as a waiver of any claim Agency may have had as a 
result of such billing error. 
5.3 Invoicing, Late Fees; Taxes. Flock may choose to bill through an invoice, in which case, full payment for 
invoices issued in any given month must be received by Flock thirty (30) days after the mailing date of the invoice.  
Unpaid amounts are subject to a finance charge of 1.5% per month on any outstanding balance, or the maximum 
permitted by law, whichever is lower, plus all expenses of collection, and may result in immediate termination of 
Service.  Agency shall be responsible for all taxes associated with Services other than U.S. taxes based on Flock’s 
net income.
5.4 No-Fee Term Access. Subject to Flock’s record retention policy, Flock offers complimentary access to the 
Flock System for 30 days (“No Fee Term”) to Agency when Non-Agency End Users intentionally prescribe access 
or judicial orders mandate access to Non-Agency End User Data.  No hardware or installation services will be 
provided to Agency.  No financial commitment by Agency is required to access the Flock Services or Footage.  
Should such access cause Flock to incur internal or out-of-pocket costs that are solely the result of the access, Flock 
reserves the right to invoice these costs to Agency under Section 5.3 and Agency agrees to pay them.  For clarity, 
No-Fee Terms and Service Terms can occur simultaneously, and when a No-Fee Term overlaps with a Service 
Term, Agency agrees to pay the Initial Fees and Usage Fees payments according to Section 5.1.
6. TERM AND TERMINATION
6.1 Term. Subject to earlier termination as provided below, the initial term of this Agreement shall be for the period 
of time set forth on the Order Form (the “Initial Term”).  Following the Initial Term, unless otherwise indicated 
on the Order Form, this Agreement will automatically renew for successive renewal terms for the greater of one 
year and the length set forth on the Order Form (each, a “Renewal Term”, and together with the Initial Term, the 
“Service Term”) unless either party gives the other party notice of non-renewal at least thirty (30) days prior to 
the end of the then-current term.
6.2 Agency Satisfaction Guarantee. At any time during the agreed upon term, a customer not fully satisfied with 
the service or solution may self-elect to terminate their contract. Self-elected termination will result in a one-time fee 
of actual cost of removal, said cost not to exceed $500 per camera. Upon self-elected termination, a refund will be 
provided, prorated for any fees paid for the remaining Term length set forth previously. Self-termination of the 
contract by the customer will be effective immediately. Flock will remove all equipment at its own convenience 
upon termination. Advance notice will be provided.
6.3 Termination. In the event of any material breach of this Agreement, the non-breaching party may terminate this 
Agreement prior to the end of the Service Term by giving thirty (30) days prior written notice to the breaching party; 
provided, however, that this Agreement will not terminate if the breaching party has cured the breach prior to the 
expiration of such thirty-day period.  Either party may terminate this Agreement, without notice, (i) upon the 
institution by or against the other party of insolvency, receivership or bankruptcy proceedings, (ii) upon the other 
party's making an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or (iii) upon the other party's dissolution or ceasing to do 
business.  Upon termination for Flock’s breach, Flock will refund to Agency a pro-rata portion of the pre-paid Fees 
for Services not received due to such termination.
Document Ref: N4JAT-XUHHU-6AJ2L-VWSQC
Page 9 of 13


--- page 10 ---
6.4 Effect of Termination. Upon any termination of the Service Term, Flock will collect all Units, delete all 
Agency Data, terminate Agency’s right to access or use any Services, and all licenses granted by Flock hereunder 
will immediately cease. Agency shall ensure that Flock is granted access to collect all Units and shall ensure that 
Flock personnel does not encounter Hazardous Conditions in the collection of such units.  Upon termination of this 
Agreement, Agency will immediately cease all use of Flock Services.
6.5 No-Fee Term. The initial No-Fee Term will extend, after entering into this Agreement, for 30 days from the 
date a Non-Agency End User grants access to their Footage and/or Notifications. In expectation of repeated non-
continuous No-Fee Terms, Flock may in its sole discretion leave access open for Agency’s Authorized End Users 
despite there not being any current Non-Agency End User authorizations.  Such access and successive No-Fee 
Terms are deemed to be part of the No-Fee Term.  Flock, in its sole discretion, can determine not to provide 
additional No-Fee Terms or can impose a price per No-Fee Term upon 30 days’ notice.  Agency may terminate any 
No-Fee Term or access to future No-Fee Terms upon 30 days’ notice.
6.6 Survival. The following Sections will survive termination: 2.4, 2.5, 3, 4, 5 (with respect to any accrued rights to 
payment), 6.5, 7.4, 8.1, 8.2, 8.3, 8.4, 9.1 and 10.5.
7. REMEDY; WARRANTY AND DISCLAIMER
7.1 Remedy. Upon a malfunction or failure of Hardware or Embedded Software (a “Defect”), Agency must first 
make commercially reasonable efforts to address the problem by contacting Flock’s technical support as described 
in Section 2.9 above.  If such efforts do not correct the Defect, Flock shall, or shall instruct one of its contractors to, 
in its sole discretion, repair or replace the Hardware or Embedded Software suffering from the Defect.  Flock 
reserves the right to refuse or delay replacement or its choice of remedy for a Defect until after it has inspected and 
tested the affected Unit; provided that such inspection and test shall occur within 72 hours after Agency notifies the 
Flock of defect.  Flock agrees to replace cameras at a fee according to the then-current Reinstall Policy 
(https://www.flocksafety.com/reinstall-fee-schedule). Customer shall not be required to replace subsequently 
damaged or stolen units; however, Customer understands and agrees that functionality, including Footage, will be 
materially affected due to such subsequently damaged or stolen units and that Flock will have no liability to 
Customer regarding such affected functionality nor shall the Fees owed be impacted. 
 
7.2 Exclusions. Flock will not provide the remedy described in Section 7.1 above if any of the following exclusions 
apply: (a) misuse of the Hardware or Embedded Software in any manner, including operation of the Hardware or 
Embedded Software in any way that does not strictly comply with any applicable specifications, documentation, or 
other restrictions on use provided by Flock; (b) damage, alteration, or modification of the Hardware or Embedded 
Software in any way; or (c) combination of the Hardware or Embedded Software with software, hardware or other 
technology that was not expressly authorized by Flock.
7.3 Warranty. Flock shall use reasonable efforts consistent with prevailing industry standards to maintain the 
Services in a manner which minimizes errors and interruptions in the Services and shall perform the Installation 
Services in a professional and workmanlike manner.  Services may be temporarily unavailable for scheduled 
maintenance or for unscheduled emergency maintenance, either by Flock or by third-party providers, or because of 
other causes beyond Flock’s reasonable control, but Flock shall use reasonable efforts to provide advance notice in 
writing or by e-mail of any scheduled service disruption.  
7.4 Disclaimer. THE REMEDY DESCRIBED IN SECTION 7.1 ABOVE IS AGENCY’S SOLE REMEDY, AND 
FLOCK’S SOLE LIABILITY, WITH RESPECT TO DEFECTIVE HARDWARE AND/OR EMBEDDED 
SOFTWARE.  THE FLOCK DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE SERVICES WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR 
ERROR FREE; NOR DOES IT MAKE ANY WARRANTY AS TO THE RESULTS THAT MAY BE OBTAINED 
FROM USE OF THE SERVICES.  EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS SECTION, THE 
SERVICES AND INSTALLATION SERVICES ARE PROVIDED “AS IS” AND FLOCK DISCLAIMS ALL 
WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, IMPLIED WARRANTIES 
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT 
.THIS DISCLAIMER OF SECTION 7.4 ONLY APPLIES TO THE EXTENT ALLOWED BY THE GOVERNING 
Document Ref: N4JAT-XUHHU-6AJ2L-VWSQC
Page 10 of 13


--- page 11 ---
LAW OF THE STATE MENTIONED IN SECTION 10.6, OR IF NO STATE IS MENTIONED IN SECTION 10.6, 
BY THE LAW OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
7.5 Insurance. Flock and Agency will each maintain commercial general liability policies with policy limits 
reasonably commensurate with the magnitude of their business risk. Certificates of Insurance will be provided upon 
request. 
8. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY AND INDEMNITY
8.1 Limitation of Liability.  NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING TO THE CONTRARY, FLOCK AND ITS 
SUPPLIERS (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ALL HARDWARE AND TECHNOLOGY SUPPLIERS), 
OFFICERS, AFFILIATES, REPRESENTATIVES, CONTRACTORS AND EMPLOYEES SHALL NOT BE 
RESPONSIBLE OR LIABLE WITH RESPECT TO ANY SUBJECT MATTER OF THIS AGREEMENT OR 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS RELATED THERETO UNDER ANY CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE, STRICT 
LIABILITY, PRODUCT LIABILITY, OR OTHER THEORY: (A) FOR ERROR OR INTERRUPTION OF USE 
OR FOR LOSS OR INACCURACY, INCOMPLETENESS OR CORRUPTION OF DATA OR FOOTAGE OR 
COST OF PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS, SERVICES OR TECHNOLOGY OR LOSS OF 
BUSINESS; (B) FOR ANY INDIRECT, EXEMPLARY, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
DAMAGES; (C) FOR ANY MATTER BEYOND FLOCK’S ACTUAL KNOWLEDGE OR REASONABLE 
CONTROL INCLUDING REPEAT CRIMINAL ACTIVITY OR INABILITY TO CAPTURE FOOTAGE OR 
IDENTIFY AND/OR CORRELATE A LICENSE PLATE WITH THE FBI DATABASE; (D) FOR ANY PUBLIC 
DISCLOSURE OF PROPRIETARY INFORMATION MADE IN GOOD FAITH; (E) FOR CRIME 
PREVENTION; OR (F) FOR ANY AMOUNTS THAT, TOGETHER WITH AMOUNTS ASSOCIATED WITH 
ALL OTHER CLAIMS, EXCEED THE FEES PAID AND/OR PAYABLE BY AGENCY TO FLOCK FOR THE 
SERVICES UNDER THIS AGREEMENT IN THE 12 MONTHS PRIOR TO THE ACT OR OMISSION THAT 
GAVE RISE TO THE LIABILITY, IN EACH CASE, WHETHER OR NOT FLOCK HAS BEEN ADVISED OF 
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.  IN THE EVENT OF AN EMERGENCY, AGENCY SHOULD 
CONTACT 911 AND SHOULD NOT RELY ON THE SERVICES.THIS LIMITATION OF LIABILITY OF 
SECTION 8 ONLY APPLIES TO THE EXTENT ALLOWED BY THE GOVERNING LAW OF THE STATE 
MENTIONED IN SECTION 10.6, OR IF NO STATE IS MENTIONED IN SECTION 10.6, BY THE LAW OF 
THE STATE OF GEORGIA
8.2 Additional No-Fee Term Requirements.  IN NO EVENT SHALL FLOCK’S AGGREGATE LIABILITY, IF 
ANY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN ANY WAY RELATED TO THE NO-FEE TERM EXCEED $100, WITHOUT 
REGARD TO WHETHER SUCH CLAIM IS BASED IN CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), 
PRODUCT LIABILITY OR OTHERWISE.  Except for Flock’s willful acts, Agency agrees to pay for Flock’s 
attorneys’ fees to defend Flock for any alleged or actual claims arising out of or in any way related to the No-Fee 
Term.
8.3 Responsibility. Each Party to this Agreement shall assume the responsibility and liability for the acts and 
omissions of its own employees, deputies, officers, or agents, in connection with the performance of their official 
duties under this Agreement. Each Party to this Agreement shall be liable (if at all) only for the torts of its own 
officers, agents, or employees that occur within the scope of their official duties. Agency will not pursue any claims 
or actions against Flock’s suppliers.
8.4 Indemnity. Agency hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Flock against any damages, losses, liabilities, 
settlements and expenses (including without limitation costs and attorneys’ fees) in connection with any claim or 
action that arises from an alleged violation of Section 3.2, a breach of this Agreement, Agency’s Installation 
Obligations, Agency’s sharing of any data in connection with the Flock system, Flock employees or agent or Non-
Agency End Users, or otherwise from Agency’s use of the Services, Hardware and any Software, including any 
claim that such actions violate any applicable law or third party right.  Although Flock has no obligation to monitor 
Agency’s use of the Services, Flock may do so and may prohibit any use of the Services it believes may be (or 
alleged to be) in violation of Section 3.2 or this Agreement.
Document Ref: N4JAT-XUHHU-6AJ2L-VWSQC
Page 11 of 13


--- page 12 ---
9. RECORD RETENTION
9.1 Data Preservation. The Agency agrees to store Agency Data and Non-Agency End User Data in compliance 
with all applicable local, state and federal laws, regulations, policies and ordinances and their associated record 
retention schedules. As part of Agency’s consideration for paid access and no-fee access to the Flock System, to the 
extent that Flock is required by local, state or federal law to store the Agency Data or the Non-Agency End User 
Data, Agency agrees to preserve and securely store this data on Flock’s behalf so that Flock can delete the data from 
its servers and, should Flock be legally compelled by judicial or government order, Flock may retrieve the data from 
Agency upon demand.
10. MISCELLANEOUS
10.1 Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is found to be unenforceable or invalid, that provision will be 
limited or eliminated to the minimum extent necessary so that this Agreement will otherwise remain in full force and 
effect and enforceable.
10.2 Assignment. This Agreement is not assignable, transferable or sublicensable by Agency except with Flock’s 
prior written consent.  Flock may transfer and assign any of its rights and obligations, in whole or in part, under this 
Agreement without consent.
10.3 Entire Agreement. This Agreement, together with the Order Form(s), the then-current Reinstall Policy 
(https://www.flocksafety.com/reinstall-fee-schedule), and Deployment Plan(s), are the complete and exclusive 
statement of the mutual understanding of the parties and supersedes and cancels all previous written and oral 
agreements, communications and other understandings relating to the subject matter of this Agreement, and that all 
waivers and modifications must be in a writing signed by both parties, except as otherwise provided herein.  None of 
Agency’s purchase orders, authorizations or similar documents will alter the terms of this Agreement, and any such 
conflicting terms are expressly rejected.
10.4 Relationship. No agency, partnership, joint venture, or employment is created as a result of this Agreement 
and Agency does not have any authority of any kind to bind Flock in any respect whatsoever.  
10.5 Costs and Attorneys’ Fees. In any action or proceeding to enforce rights under this Agreement, the prevailing 
party will be entitled to recover costs and attorneys’ fees.
10.6 Governing Law; Venue. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Georgia without regard 
to its conflict of laws provisions.  To the extent that the arbitration language below does not apply, the federal and 
state courts sitting in Atlanta, Georgia will have proper and exclusive jurisdiction and venue with respect to any 
disputes arising from or related to the subject matter of this Agreement.  The parties agree that the United Nations 
Convention for the International Sale of Goods is excluded in its entirety from this Agreement. Any dispute arising 
out of, in connection with, or in relation to this agreement or the making of validity thereof or its interpretation or 
any breach thereof shall be determined and settled by arbitration in Atlanta, Georgia by a sole arbitrator pursuant to 
the rules and regulations then obtaining of the American Arbitration Association and any award rendered therein 
shall be final and conclusive upon the parties, and a judgment thereon may be entered in the highest court of the 
forum, state or federal, having jurisdiction. The service of any notice, process, motion or other document in 
connection with an arbitration award under this agreement or for the enforcement of an arbitration award hereunder 
may be effectuated by either personal service or by certified or registered mail to the respective addresses provided 
herein.
10.7 Publicity. Unless otherwise indicated on the Order Form, Flock has the right to reference and use Agency’s 
name and trademarks and disclose the nature of the Services provided hereunder in each case in business and 
development and marketing efforts, including without limitation on Flock’s website. 
10.8 Export. Agency may not remove or export from the United States or allow the export or re-export of the Flock 
IP or anything related thereto, or any direct product thereof in violation of any restrictions, laws or regulations of the 
United States Department of Commerce, the United States Department of Treasury Office of Foreign Assets 
Document Ref: N4JAT-XUHHU-6AJ2L-VWSQC
Page 12 of 13


--- page 13 ---
Control, or any other United States or foreign agency or authority.  As defined in FAR section 2.101, the Services, 
the Hardware, the Embedded Software and Documentation are “commercial items” and according to DFAR section 
252.2277014(a)(1) and (5) are deemed to be “commercial computer software” and “commercial computer software 
documentation.” Consistent with DFAR section 227.7202 and FAR section 12.212, any use, modification, 
reproduction, release, performance, display, or disclosure of such commercial software or commercial software 
documentation by the U.S.  Government will be governed solely by the terms of this Agreement and will be 
prohibited except to the extent expressly permitted by the terms of this Agreement.
10.9 Headings. The headings are merely for organization and should not be construed as adding meaning to the 
Agreement or interpreting the associated Sections.
10.10 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed 
an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
10.11 Authority. Each of the below signers of this Agreement represent that they understand this Agreement and 
have the authority to sign on behalf of and bind the organizations and individuals they are representing.  
10.12 Notices. All notices under this Agreement will be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given 
when received, if personally delivered; when receipt is electronically confirmed, if transmitted by facsimile or e-
mail; the day after it is sent, if sent for next day delivery by recognized overnight delivery service; and upon receipt, 
if sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested.  
Document Ref: N4JAT-XUHHU-6AJ2L-VWSQC
Page 13 of 13


--- page 14 ---
Signature Certificate
Document Ref.: N4JAT-XUHHU-6AJ2L-VWSQC
Document signed by:
Garrett Langley
Verified E-mail:
garrett@flocksafety.com
IP: 172.2.125.104
Date: 13 Aug 2020 22:52:38 UTC
Todd Mefford
Verified E-mail:
mefford@cityofsanmateo.org
IP: 76.14.0.98
Date: 17 Aug 2020 17:46:24 UTC
Document completed by all parties on:
17 Aug 2020 17:46:24 UTC
Page 1 of 1
Signed with PandaDoc.com
PandaDoc is the document platform that boosts your
company's revenue by accelerating the way it transacts.
