source: packet.pdf
sha256: dfe46ac01b6cec3908e28845b8017a332393e574df44118a519624ba7f79f129
pages: 119
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting
July 20, 2020
5:00 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Joe Goethals, Mayor
Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor
Rick Bonilla
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
PURSUANT TO AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: July 20, 2020 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Enter Conference ID: 838 0491 8438
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the Council's consideration of this item.
1.
Police Department Budget and Policy Discussion
Receive an informational presentation on the Police Department fiscal year 2020-21 budget and policies.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
(continue on next page)
1 of 119

--- page 2 ---
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 119

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 20-3258
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
July 20, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Police Department Budget and Policy Discussion
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an informational presentation on the Police Department fiscal year 2020-21 budget and policies. 
BACKGROUND:
At its meeting of June 15, 2020, the City Council adopted the fiscal year 2020-21 operating budget.  At that meeting, 
Council expressed a desire to review the Police Department budget in greater depth at a later date, as well as receive an 
update on policies related to use of force in order to gain a better understanding of current practices. 
The adopted Police Department budget for fiscal year 2020-21 is $50,262,860. This includes a General Fund budget of 
$47,373,390, with the remaining $2,889,470 budgeted to special funds. The Police Department maintains a policy manual 
containing formal policies adopted to provide guidance in its operations. The entire contents of the policy manual are 
available on the City’s website to offer transparency and ensure accountability. A comprehensive presentation and 
discussion on the Department’s budget and policies will be provided to the City Council and the public at the study session. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no direct budgetary impact resulting from this report.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – SMPD Use of Force Policy 
Att 2 – Public Comment
Link to the Budget: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/997/Business-Plans-Budget (Police budget begins on page 154)
Link to the Policies: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4331/Accountability
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
3 of 119

--- page 4 ---
Policy
300
San Mateo Police Department
POLICIES
Copyright Lexipol, LLC 2020/07/02, All Rights Reserved.
Published with permission by San Mateo Police Department
***DRAFT***
Use of Force - 1
Use of Force
300.1   PURPOSE AND SCOPE
This policy provides guidelines on the reasonable use of force. While there is no way to specify
the exact amount or type of reasonable force to be applied in any situation, every member of
this department is expected to use these guidelines to make such decisions in a professional,
impartial and reasonable manner.
300.1.1   DEFINITIONS
Definitions related to this policy include:
Deadly force - Any use of force that creates a substantial risk of causing death or serious bodily
injury, including but not limited to the discharge of a firearm (Penal Code § 835a).
Display of force – The presentation of any force option in the direction of another person.
Force - The application of physical techniques or tactics, chemical agents, or weapons to another
person. It is not a use of force when a person allows him/herself to be searched, escorted,
handcuffed, or restrained.
Imminent Threat: An imminent threat of death or serious bodily injury exists when, based on the
totality of the circumstances, a reasonable officer in the same situation would believe that a person
has the present ability, opportunity, and apparent intent to immediately cause death or serious
bodily injury to the officer or another person. An imminent harm is not merely a fear of future harm,
no matter how great the fear and no matter how great the likelihood of the harm, but is one that,
from appearances, must be instantly confronted and addressed (Penal Code § 835a).
300.2   POLICY
The use of force by law enforcement personnel is a matter of critical concern, both to the public
and to the law enforcement community. Officers are involved on a daily basis in numerous and
varied interactions and, when warranted, may use reasonable force in carrying out their duties.
Officers must have an understanding of, and true appreciation for, their authority and limitations.
This is especially true with respect to overcoming resistance while engaged in the performance
of law enforcement duties.
The Department recognizes and respects the value of all human life and dignity without prejudice
to anyone. Vesting officers with the authority to use reasonable force and to protect the public
welfare requires monitoring, evaluation and a careful balancing of all interests.
300.2.1   DE-ESCALATION
Officers shall, when feasible, employ de-escalation techniques to decrease the likelihood of the
need to use force during an incident and to increase the likelihood of voluntary compliance. Officers
shall, when feasible, attempt to understand and consider the possible reasons why a subject may
be noncompliant or resisting arrest.  A subject may not be capable of understanding the situation
or complying with commands due to a medical condition; mental, physical, or hearing impairment;
4 of 119

--- page 5 ---
San Mateo Police Department
POLICIES
Use of Force
Copyright Lexipol, LLC 2020/07/02, All Rights Reserved.
Published with permission by San Mateo Police Department
***DRAFT***
Use of Force - 2
language barrier; drug interaction; or emotional crisis.  These situations may not make the subject
any less dangerous or mean that an officer is prohibited from using force, but understanding a
subject’s situation may enable officers to calm that subject and allow officers to use de-escalation
techniques while maintaining public and officer safety.
Officers who act to de-escalate an incident, which can delay taking a subject into custody, while
keeping the public and officers safe, will not have neglected their duty - they will have fulfilled
it.  Under no circumstances should an officer employ de-escalation techniques in a manner that
jeopardizes their immediate safety or that of another person.  Supervisors who become aware
of a situation where an officer is using de-escalation techniques shall, when feasible, respond to
the scene.
300.2.2   FORCE OPTIONS
When the use of force reasonably appears necessary, an officer should consider all available
force options and use the most appropriate option given the totality of the circumstances.  Officers
should not employ a more forceful option unless it reasonably appears that a lower force option
would not be adequate.
The officer should use their training and experience to assist in determining the force option that
reasonably appears necessary when responding to a particular threat or situation and shall utilize
the appropriate force option when available.
I.
De-escalation options
(a)
Officer presence
(b)
Verbal commands
(c)
Display of force
II.
Force Options
(a)
Physical control holds
(b)
Restraint devices
(c)
Aerosol pepper (O.C) projection
(d)
Impact weapons (baton)
(e)
Canine
(f)
Kinetic Impact Munitions
(g)
Conducted Energy Device (CED)
(h)
Deadly force
300.2.3   DUTY TO INTERCEDE
Any officer present and observing another officer using force that is clearly beyond that which
is objectively reasonable under the circumstances shall, when in a position to do so, intercede
to prevent the use of unreasonable force. An officer who observes another employee use force
5 of 119

--- page 6 ---
San Mateo Police Department
POLICIES
Use of Force
Copyright Lexipol, LLC 2020/07/02, All Rights Reserved.
Published with permission by San Mateo Police Department
***DRAFT***
Use of Force - 3
that exceeds the degree of force permitted by law should promptly report these observations to
a supervisor.
300.3   USE OF FORCE
Officers shall use only that amount of force that reasonably appears necessary given the facts
and totality of the circumstances known to or perceived by the officer at the time of the event to
accomplish a legitimate law enforcement purpose (Penal Code § 835a).
The reasonableness of force will be judged from the perspective of a reasonable officer on the
scene at the time of the incident. Any evaluation of reasonableness must allow for the fact that
officers are often forced to make split-second decisions about the amount of force that reasonably
appears necessary in a particular situation, with limited information and in circumstances that are
tense, uncertain, and rapidly evolving.
Given that no policy can realistically predict every possible situation an officer might encounter,
officers are entrusted to use well-reasoned discretion in determining the appropriate use of force
in each incident.
It is also recognized that circumstances may arise in which officers reasonably believe that it
would be impractical or ineffective to use any of the tools, weapons, or methods provided by the
Department. Officers may find it more effective or reasonable to improvise their response to rapidly
unfolding conditions that they are confronting. In such circumstances, the use of any improvised
device or method must nonetheless be objectively reasonable and utilized only to the degree that
reasonably appears necessary to accomplish a legitimate law enforcement purpose.
While the ultimate objective of every law enforcement encounter is to avoid or minimize injury,
nothing in this policy requires an officer to retreat or be exposed to possible physical injury before
applying reasonable force.
300.3.1   USE OF FORCE TO EFFECT AN ARREST
Any peace officer may use objectively reasonable force to effect an arrest, to prevent escape,
or to overcome resistance. A peace officer who makes or attempts to make an arrest need not
retreat or desist from his/her efforts by reason of resistance or threatened resistance on the part
of the person being arrested; nor shall an officer be deemed the aggressor or lose his/her right to
self-defense by the use of reasonable force to effect the arrest, prevent escape, or to overcome
resistance. Retreat does not mean tactical repositioning or other de-escalation techniques (Penal
Code § 835a).
300.3.2   FACTORS USED TO DETERMINE THE REASONABLENESS OF FORCE
When determining whether to apply force and evaluating whether an officer has used reasonable
force, a number of factors should be taken into consideration, as time and circumstances permit.
These factors include but are not limited to:
(a)
The apparent immediacy and severity of the threat to officers or others (Penal Code
§ 835a).
6 of 119

--- page 7 ---
San Mateo Police Department
POLICIES
Use of Force
Copyright Lexipol, LLC 2020/07/02, All Rights Reserved.
Published with permission by San Mateo Police Department
***DRAFT***
Use of Force - 4
(b)
The conduct of the individual being confronted, as reasonably perceived by the officer
at the time.
(c)
Officer/subject factors (age, size, relative strength, skill level, injuries sustained, level
of exhaustion or fatigue, the number of officers available vs. subjects).
(d)
The conduct of the involved officer (Penal Code § 835a).
(e)
The effects of drugs or alcohol.
(f)
The individual's apparent mental state or capacity (Penal Code § 835a).
(g)
The individual’s apparent ability to understand and comply with officer commands
(Penal Code § 835a).
(h)
Proximity of weapons or dangerous improvised devices.
(i)
The degree to which the subject has been effectively restrained and his/her ability to
resist despite being restrained.
(j)
The availability of other reasonable and feasible options and their possible
effectiveness (Penal Code § 835a).
(k)
Seriousness of the suspected offense or reason for contact with the individual.
(l)
Training and experience of the officer.
(m)
Potential for injury to officers, suspects, and others.
(n)
Whether the person appears to be resisting, attempting to evade arrest by flight, or
is attacking the officer.
(o)
The risk and reasonably foreseeable consequences of escape.
(p)
The apparent need for immediate control of the subject or a prompt resolution of the
situation.
(q)
Whether the conduct of the individual being confronted no longer reasonably appears
to pose an imminent threat to the officer or others.
(r)
Prior contacts with the subject or awareness of any propensity for violence.
(s)
Any other exigent circumstances.
300.3.3   PAIN COMPLIANCE TECHNIQUES
Pain compliance techniques may be effective in controlling a physically or actively resisting
individual. Officers may only apply those pain compliance techniques for which they have
successfully completed department-approved training. Officers utilizing any pain compliance
technique should consider:
(a)
The degree to which the application of the technique may be controlled given the level
of resistance.
(b)
Whether the person can comply with the direction or orders of the officer.
(c)
Whether the person has been given sufficient opportunity to comply.
7 of 119

--- page 8 ---
San Mateo Police Department
POLICIES
Use of Force
Copyright Lexipol, LLC 2020/07/02, All Rights Reserved.
Published with permission by San Mateo Police Department
***DRAFT***
Use of Force - 5
The application of any pain compliance technique shall be discontinued once the officer
determines that compliance has been achieved.
300.3.4   CAROTID CONTROL HOLD
The Carotid control hold is not an authorized technique for the Department. Additionally any
technique that functions as a chokehold, stranglehold, etc, is prohibited.
300.4   DEADLY FORCE APPLICATIONS
If an objectively reasonable officer would consider it safe and feasible to do so under the totality of
the circumstances, officers should evaluate the use of other reasonably available resources and
techniques when determining whether to use deadly force. The use of deadly force is only justified
in the following circumstances (Penal Code § 835a):
(a)
An officer may use deadly force to protect him/herself or others from what he/she
reasonably believes is an imminent threat of death or serious bodily injury to the officer
or another person.
(b)
An officer may use deadly force to apprehend a fleeing person for any felony that
threatened or resulted in death or serious bodily injury, if the officer reasonably
believes that the person will cause death or serious bodily injury to another unless
immediately apprehended. Where feasible, the officer shall, prior to the use of force,
make reasonable efforts to identify themselves as a peace officer and to warn that
deadly force may be used, unless the officer has objectively reasonable grounds to
believe the person is aware of those facts.
Officers shall not use deadly force against a person based on the danger that person poses to him/
herself, if an objectively reasonable officer would believe the person does not pose an imminent
threat of death or serious bodily injury to the officer or to another person (Penal Code § 835a).
An “imminent” threat of death or serious bodily injury exists when, based on the totality of the
circumstances, a reasonable officer in the same situation would believe that a person has the
present ability, opportunity, and apparent intent to immediately cause death or serious bodily injury
to the officer or another person. An officer’s subjective fear of future harm alone is insufficient as
an imminent threat. An imminent threat is one that from appearances is reasonably believed to
require instant attention (Penal Code § 835a).
300.4.1   SHOOTING AT OR FROM MOVING VEHICLES
Shooting at moving vehicles is generally an ineffective practice and could have unintended
ramifications, including potential injury to other people in the area.  A moving vehicle may become
an uncontrolled deadly weapon that could seriously injure or kill the occupants of the vehicle and/
or subjects in its path if the driver becomes incapacitated before the vehicle comes to a stop.  The
potential harm to others should be considered prior to using deadly force.
1.
Officers should not knowingly place themselves into the path of a moving vehicle or
in the likely path of a vehicle that is stopped but is under the immediate control of a
driver.  When feasible, officers should attempt to move out of the path of any moving
vehicle to a position of cover.
8 of 119

--- page 9 ---
San Mateo Police Department
POLICIES
Use of Force
Copyright Lexipol, LLC 2020/07/02, All Rights Reserved.
Published with permission by San Mateo Police Department
***DRAFT***
Use of Force - 6
2.
Shooting at a moving vehicle, when the vehicle is being used as a weapon, and in
self-defense or in defense of another should only be an option if:
(a)
The officer reasonably believes that they, or another person, cannot move to a
safe position, and;
(b)
There are no other safe and viable options available.
3.
When a fleeing vehicle does not pose an immediate threat of serious bodily injury or
death to the officer or another person at the scene, firearms should not be discharged
at such fleeing vehicles except in extraordinary circumstances when an officer believes
with reasonable certainty that the driver or occupant will inflict harm likely to cause
serious bodily injury or death if allowed to escape.
300.5   REPORTING THE USE OF FORCE
Any display of force or use of force by a member of this department shall be documented promptly,
completely and accurately in a manner approved by the department, depending on the nature
of the incident. The officer should articulate the factors perceived and why he/she believed the
use of force was reasonable under the circumstances. To collect data for purposes of training,
resource allocation, analysis and related purposes, the Department may require the completion
of additional report forms, as specified in department policy, procedure or law.
300.5.1   NOTIFICATION TO SUPERVISORS
Supervisory notification shall be made as soon as practicable following the display of force or
application of force in any of the following circumstances:
(a)
The display of a deadly force option.
(b)
The application caused a visible injury.
(c)
The application would lead a reasonable officer to conclude that the individual may
have experienced more than momentary discomfort.
(d)
The individual subjected to the force complained of injury or continuing pain.
(e)
The individual indicates intent to pursue litigation.
(f)
Any application of a TASER device or control device.
(g)
Any application of a restraint device other than handcuffs, shackles or belly chains.
(h)
The individual subjected to the force was rendered unconscious.
(i)
An individual was struck or kicked.
(j)
An individual alleges any of the above has occurred.
300.5.2   REPORTING TO CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Statistical data regarding all officer-involved shootings and incidents involving use of force
resulting in serious bodily injury is to be reported to the California Department of Justice as required
by Government Code § 12525.2. See the Records policy.
9 of 119

--- page 10 ---
San Mateo Police Department
POLICIES
Use of Force
Copyright Lexipol, LLC 2020/07/02, All Rights Reserved.
Published with permission by San Mateo Police Department
***DRAFT***
Use of Force - 7
300.6   MEDICAL CONSIDERATION
Prior to booking or release, medical assistance shall be obtained for any person who exhibits signs
of physical distress, who has sustained visible injury, expresses a complaint of injury or continuing
pain, or who was rendered unconscious. Any individual exhibiting signs of physical distress after
an encounter should be continuously monitored until he/she can be medically assessed.
Based upon the officer’s initial assessment of the nature and extent of the subject’s injuries,
medical assistance may consist of examination by fire personnel, paramedics, hospital staff or
medical staff at the jail. If any such individual refuses medical attention, such a refusal shall be
fully documented in related reports and, whenever practicable, should be witnessed by another
officer and/or medical personnel. If a recording is made of the contact or an interview with the
individual, any refusal should be included in the recording, if possible.
The on-scene supervisor or, if the on-scene supervisor is not available, the primary handling officer
shall ensure that any person providing medical care or receiving custody of a person following any
use of force is informed that the person was subjected to force. This notification shall include a
description of the force used and any other circumstances the officer reasonably believes would
be potential safety or medical risks to the subject (e.g., prolonged struggle, extreme agitation,
impaired respiration).
Persons who exhibit extreme agitation, violent irrational behavior accompanied by profuse
sweating, extraordinary strength beyond their physical characteristics and imperviousness to pain
(sometimes called “excited delirium”), or who require a protracted physical encounter with multiple
officers to be brought under control, may be at an increased risk of sudden death. Calls involving
these persons should be considered medical emergencies. Officers who reasonably suspect a
medical emergency should request medical assistance as soon as practicable and have medical
personnel stage away if appropriate.
300.7   SUPERVISOR RESPONSIBILITY
When a supervisor is able to respond to an incident in which there has been a reported application
of force, the supervisor is expected to:
(a)
Obtain the basic facts from the involved officers. Absent an allegation of misconduct
or excessive force, this will be considered a routine contact in the normal course of
duties.
(b)
Ensure that any injured parties are examined and treated.
(c)
When possible, separately obtain a recorded interview with the subject upon whom
force was applied. For the supervisor interview, the following shall apply:
1.
The fact that a recorded interview was conducted, and a summary of the
interview, should be documented in the police report..
2.
The recording of the interview should be distinctly marked for retention until all
potential for civil litigation has expired.
10 of 119

--- page 11 ---
San Mateo Police Department
POLICIES
Use of Force
Copyright Lexipol, LLC 2020/07/02, All Rights Reserved.
Published with permission by San Mateo Police Department
***DRAFT***
Use of Force - 8
(d)
Once any initial medical assessment has been completed or first aid has been
rendered, ensure that photographs have been taken of any areas involving visible
injury or complaint of pain, as well as overall photographs of uninjured areas. These
photographs should be retained until all potential for civil litigation has expired.
(e)
Identifying all persons present at the scene and in the immediate area.
1.
When feasible, a recorded statement should be obtained from those who claim
not to have witnessed the incident but who were present at the time it occurred.
2.
Any potential witness who is unwilling or unable to remain available for a formal
interview should not be detained absent reasonable suspicion to detain or
probable cause to arrest. Without detaining the individual for the sole purpose
of identification, officers should attempt to identify the witness prior to his/her
departure.
(f)
Review and approve all related reports.
(g)
Determine if there is any indication that the subject may pursue civil litigation.
1.
If there is an indication of potential civil litigation, the supervisor should complete
and route a notification of a potential claim through the appropriate channels.
(h)
Evaluate the circumstances surrounding the incident and initiate an administrative
investigation if there is a question of policy non-compliance or if for any reason further
investigation may be appropriate.
In the event that a supervisor is unable to respond to the scene of an incident involving the reported
application of force, the supervisor is still expected to complete as many of the above items as
circumstances permit.
300.7.1   WATCH COMMANDER RESPONSIBILITY
The Watch Commander shall review each use of force by any personnel within his/her command
to ensure compliance with this policy and to address any training issues.
11 of 119

--- page 12 ---
Sent: Friday, June 26, 2020 7:39 AM 
To: Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla 
<RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan 
<dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Defund San Mateo PD  
 
Hello, 
My name is Isabella Abelgas and I am a resident of the City of San Mateo. I am writing with 
regard to recent calls nationwide to look at and reconsider how our nation's cities and 
states allocate our budgets toward the police department. As I am sure you are aware with 
regard to this now national conversation, much research has shown that policing does not 
actually improve the safety and wellbeing of residents across many different landscapes be 
it in suburban, urban and rural areas. What does, however, support the wellbeing and 
safety of community members in cities across the United States is deep trust and 
investment in our communities through housing, health care services, jobs, mental health 
services, and education  (some of these I am fully aware are under county rather than city 
jurisdiction).  
 
In reading the proposed city budget for FY 20-21, I am appalled that almost $50.3 million is 
being allocated towards funding the San Mateo police department.  With looming budget 
deficits as a result of COVID-19, we do not accept the prioritization of an increased police 
department budget over essential community resources in this next year. We demand a 
budget that adequately and effectively meets the needs of at-risk San Mateo residents 
during this trying and uncertain time, when livelihoods are on the line. We demand a 
budget that supports community wellbeing, rather than one that empowers police. 
 
There is undoubtedly an abuse of power amongst our local San Mateo police. Our 
community sees it in the sexual harassment and mistreatment of workers, particularly at 
our local Starbucks by police officers. Our community sees it with the over aggression by 
police on families and students at high school basketball games at San Mateo. We see it in 
the wrongful and despicable death of Chinedu Okobi by disgusting, power hungry, 
uneducated and ignorant police.  Our community sees San Mateo’s police abusing their 
powers everywhere and always.  
 
Do not be accomplices to San Mateo’s abusive police force. Do not be accomplices to sexual 
harassment and murder. Listen to San Mateo’s people and defund the police. We do not 
need them, we do not want them, and people of color like myself, my family and peers, I 
assure you, do not feel safe with San Mateo police around.  
 
It is your duty to represent your constituents. I am urging you to completely revise the San 
Mateo city budget for 2020-2021 fiscal year. Public opinion is with me. 
Thank you for your time, 
Isabella Abelgas 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
12 of 119

--- page 13 ---
Sent: Tuesday, June 23, 2020 9:12 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Issues I care about  
 
Dear City Council, 
 
After the 2016 election, I took a break. There were months of calling, doubling down, attending some events for the 
Democratic Party but I am pretty much done with business as usual. I have cut and pasted these ideas and goals that I 
hope my local government will work toward.  
 
I love San Mateo. I have a business here and I spend as much of my money locally as I can.  My number one request is 
the reopen the case of Chinedu Valentine Okobi, and prosecute the officer who killed this unarmed man. I will also be 
writing to the San Mateo PD about this matter.  
 
#2 I want you to reduce the budget for the local Police Department and the Sherrif’s department. I was very dismayed 
to see you did NOT do this on your last meeting which was AFTER the brutal murder of George Floyd in the street! 
 
Here are more requests. I will be writing more. I will be more involved. 
I look forward to San Mateo being a leading liberal voice of the Bay Area. 
 
Double the minimum wage, and index it to the cost of living. 
Guarantee the right of all workers to organize and to strike; forbid striker replacement. 
Socially useful jobs for all at union pay levels. 
 
Convert from a military to a peace-oriented economy, with jobs for displaced workers. Defund the police. 
End Corporate Personhood: Corporations are not people and money is not speech. (PROP 13, what are you doing to get 
this back on the ballot) 
 
Full rights for all immigrant workers. No human is illegal. Stop ICE raids. Stop jailing and deporting immigrants. 
Democratic elections through proportional representation; full political, social, and economic rights for resident non-
citizens. 
 
Honor treaties with Native American nations; recognize California's Native American nations. Defend and extend Native 
American rights and sovereignty. 
 
Full free high-quality public education from pre-school through graduate school, with lifelong learning and retraining. 
Cancel existing student debt. 
 
Teach the history of workers' struggles and labor's creation of society's wealth and progress. 
 
End high stakes testing. Abolish charter schools and stop voucher schemes. 
 
Free daycare for all children. 
 
Restore and strengthen bilingual education. 
 
Uncensored government funding for ordinary people to create and enjoy art. 
 
Free high-quality health care for everyone, including birth control, abortion, pre-natal, and childhood health care. No 
forced sterilizations. 
 
Scientific and technological research to benefit ordinary people, not the capitalists. 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
13 of 119

--- page 14 ---
Restore and protect air, water, land, and ecosystems. 
 
Outlaw destructive practices such as clear-cutting, fracking, mountaintop removal, tar sands extraction, and offshore 
drilling. 
 
Promote conservation and develop solar and other renewable energy to replace nuclear power and fossil fuels. 
End environmental racism: no toxic dumping in anyone's back yard. 
 
The massive development of public transportation available free or at nominal fares. 
 
Promote an environmentally sound agricultural system that meets human needs and protects farmworkers' labor rights 
and standard of living. No genetically engineered organisms in food production. 
 
http://peaceandfreedom.org/home/about-us/platform/summary-platform 
 
More on defunding the police: 
 
"The framework seeks to divest funds from policing departments and reinvest them in other community resources and 
institutions such as education and health care. The concept is also about exploring alternatives to emergency response 
that don’t center around policing. (See the peace and freedom platform above for ideas). 
 
With the current U.S. policing systems in place, violence often goes underreported because people are too scared to call 
the police and risk arrest or prison.  
 
The current system doesn’t lead to “accountability, and safety and transformative justice” that would give people what 
they need to be “repaired, restored and healed from harm.” Defunding the police is an approach to changing that" 
By Philip V. McHarris and Thenjiwe McHarris 
Mr. McHarris is a doctoral candidate focusing on race, housing and policing. Ms. McHarris is a strategist with the 
Movement for Black Lives. 
• 
 
I will be reading all of these  articles posted below and I look forward to more statements from you as a council as to 
how you will protect Black Americans and our Latinx communities. 
 
As a white woman, I won’t look away this time. 
 
Thank you! 
Bridget Bertrand 
 
1. "The Fraternal Order Of Police: A Union That Stands In The Way Of Police Reforms", 
NPR https://act.colorofchange.org/go/251954?t=6&akid=43658%2E10174618%2EBeA-r6 
2. "Police Union President Calls Black Lives Matter Protesters Outside Philadelphia Officer’s House ‘a Pack of Rabid 
Animals’", NBC Philadelphia https://act.colorofchange.org/go/251955?t=8&akid=43658%2E10174618%2EBeA-r6 
3. "Calls For Reform Put Minneapolis Police Union Leader In Hot Seat", 
NPR https://act.colorofchange.org/go/251956?t=10&akid=43658%2E10174618%2EBeA-r6 
4. "Brevard County FOP head resigns over post on accused officers", News 4 
Jax https://act.colorofchange.org/go/251957?t=12&akid=43658%2E10174618%2EBeA-r6 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
14 of 119

--- page 15 ---
From: Frances Boscacci < >  
Sent: Sunday, July 12, 2020 2:53 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: DO NOT DEFUND SM Police!  
 
Please listen to your community. Our Police has good relationship with us, if anything, add 
training and best recruiting practices!     
 
Frances Boscacci mobile 
San Mateo RESIDENT 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
15 of 119

--- page 16 ---
Sent: Monday, June 15, 2020 5:34 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
goethals@cityofsanmateo.org; Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla 
<RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan 
<dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Defund SMPD 
 
To the San Mateo City Council: 
 
The proposed $50.3M annual budget for the San Mateo Police Department should not be 
approved.  San Mateo's proposed annual budget for community development is only 
$13.3M.  The City should not be spending almost four times more for police than it does for 
affordable housing. 
 
Spending on police should be greatly reduced across the board -- from personnel to weapons 
and equipment to facilities.  Instead of the near-automatic budget increases that the City 
Council has voted through year after year, the police budget should see annual double-digit 
cuts and the funds reallocated to community development and social services. 
 
Respectfully yours, 
 
Todd Espinosa 
San Mateo, CA 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
16 of 119

--- page 17 ---
From: Elena Gray < >  
Sent: Monday, June 22, 2020 3:45 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
goethals@cityofsanmateo.org; Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla 
<RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan 
<dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Defund San Mateo PD 
 
Hello, 
My name is Elena Gray and I am a resident of the City of San Mateo. I am writing with regard to 
recent calls nationwide to look at and reconsider how our nation's cities and states allocate our 
budgets toward the police department. As I am sure you are aware with regard to this now 
national conversation, much research has shown that policing does not actually improve the 
safety and wellbeing of residents across many different landscapes be it in suburban, urban and 
rural areas. What does, however, support the wellbeing and safety of community members in 
cities across the United States is deep trust and investment in our communities through 
housing, health care services, jobs, mental health services, and education  (some of these I am 
fully aware are under county rather than city jurisdiction).  
In reading the proposed city budget for FY 20-21, I am appalled that almost $50.3 million is 
being allocated towards funding the San Mateo police department.  With looming budget 
deficits as a result of COVID-19, we do not accept the prioritization of an increased police 
department budget over essential community resources in this next year. We demand a budget 
that adequately and effectively meets the needs of at-risk San Mateo residents during this 
trying and uncertain time, when livelihoods are on the line. We demand a budget that supports 
community wellbeing, rather than one that empowers police.  
 
It is your duty to represent your constituents. I am urging you to completely revise the San 
Mateo city budget for 2020-2021 fiscal year. Public opinion is with me.  
Thank you for your time, 
Elena Gray 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
17 of 119

--- page 18 ---
Sent: Saturday, June 27, 2020 3:12 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; goethals@cityofsanmateo.org; Eric 
Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence 
Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Defund San Mateo PD 
 
Hello, 
 
My name is Kyle Guanzon and I am a resident of the City of San Mateo. I am writing with regard to 
recent calls nationwide to look at and reconsider how our nation's cities and states allocate our 
budgets toward the police department. As I am sure you are aware with regard to this now national 
conversation, much research has shown that policing does not actually improve the safety and 
wellbeing of residents across many different landscapes be it in suburban, urban and rural areas. 
What does, however, support the wellbeing and safety of community members in cities across the 
United States is deep trust and investment in our communities through housing, health care 
services, jobs, mental health services, and education (some of these I am fully aware are under 
county rather than city jurisdiction).  
 
In reading the proposed city budget for FY 20-21, I am appalled that almost $50.3 million is being 
allocated towards funding the San Mateo police department.  With looming budget deficits as a 
result of COVID-19, we do not accept the prioritization of an increased police department budget 
over essential community resources in this next year. We demand a budget that adequately and 
effectively meets the needs of at-risk San Mateo residents during this trying and uncertain time, 
when livelihoods are on the line. We demand a budget that supports community wellbeing, rather 
than one that empowers police. 
 
It is your duty to represent your constituents. I am urging you to completely revise the San Mateo 
city budget for 2020-2021 fiscal year. Public opinion is with me. 
 
Thank you for your time, 
--  
KYLE GUANZON 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
18 of 119

--- page 19 ---
Sent: Monday, June 15, 2020 5:53 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; goethals@cityofsanmateo.org; Eric 
Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee 
<alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Plan to defund and defer funds to police 
 
City Council, 
 
Sixty or more years of attempting to reform the police have not reduced their violations of our human 
rights. 
 
The San Mateo Police Department, like any other, is not immune to this problem. That’s because this 
isn’t a matter of how any particular police department is run or if the officers in that department are 
“good” or “bad” cops. It’s a problem of what we are asking police to do. 
 
As social programs and services have steadily been defunded and striped away from our 
communities, police have been the convenient answer. Police have stepped in where social workers 
not longer exist, but without the knowledge or expertise of providing those services. If you’ll pardon 
the pun, having police handle these situations is a cop out. 
 
We need a plan to take police out of those roles while bringing people with social services expertise 
back into our communities. One that mitigates the risks of operating a police department while 
improving the likelihood of a safer community. Here is a suggested high-level process we might 
follow: 
 
Audit the police department 
Financial, activities, outcomes. 
 
Define activities where successful outcomes require the presence of guns and the threat of arrest 
and incarceration. 
 
Isolate activities where presence of guns and the threat of arrest and incarceration is not producing 
the desired outcomes and propose alternatives to addressing those situations without police. 
 
Examine the budgetary considerations and shift funding accordingly to both minimize police 
engagement in those activities and increase engagement of social experts. 
 
Report to the community what's happening to their tax dollars and when they can expect to see 
changes. 
 
--  
Arne Hurty, CCO 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
19 of 119

--- page 20 ---
From: Carmen Hyacinth < >  
Sent: Monday, June 15, 2020 12:32 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Consent Agenda re: Budget 
 
Hello, 
 
As a resident of San Mateo, I am writing to ask that the proposed budget for the police be 
removed from the consent agenda. 
The proposed budget of $50.2M is 67% more than what it was in 2013-2014 and I believe the 
funds would be better purposed to be used towards civilian crisis intervention services that can 
handle 911 calls that don't require an armed response. 
I'd also like to see more of those funds go toward homeless shelters and drug rehab services. 
 
I'd love to see San Mateo at the forefront of positive change rather than continuing to feed a 
machine that is not servicing our people equally. 
 
Thank you for your consideration, 
Carmen Hyacinth 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
20 of 119

--- page 21 ---
From: Chuck Kabala < >  
Sent: Sunday, July 12, 2020 9:32 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Police budget 
 
To whom it may concern: 
 
There is a direct correlation between crime and the number of police officers employed in any 
particular community.  More police = less crime. 
 
Keep San Mateo safe and INCREASE funding for our police department. 
 
Respectfully  
Chuck and Beth Kabala 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
21 of 119

--- page 22 ---
Sent: Friday, June 19, 2020 10:38 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Joe Goethals 
<jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org>; Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick 
Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane 
Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Amend the San Mateo budget and divert money away from police and towards social 
services 
 
Dear San Mateo City Council, 
 
My name is Aurora Kasten and I am a lifelong resident of San Mateo. I am emailing to 
express my anger and frustration over your decision to make no cuts to the police 
department’s 2021 budget. This budget totals $50.3 million, which is 35% of the general 
fund and a 67% increase since 2013. Not only that, but you've made this decision in a 
moment when we are facing a structural deficit due to COVID-19 and a lack of funding 
for essential social services and housing programs. 
 
I am disgusted that the City Council has ignored calls to defund the police even just 
enough to get us back to 2013 spending levels. We don’t need a Police Activities 
League. We don’t need armed officers in our kids’ schools. What we need is fewer 
police officers and more health care workers, social workers, and emergency response 
teams. These professionals don’t need weapons. They’re trained to handle crises 
related to everything from substance abuse and domestic violence to houselessness 
and mental health problems. Policies to “improve the police” are not enough. Implicit 
bias training and community relations initiatives aren’t working. You want to believe that 
San Mateo’s police are different, not like the “bad apples” in Minneapolis or Louisville. 
But they’re part of the same system that is diverting precious community resources 
away from programs that truly promote safety and equality in our community. 
 
Show us that you’re listening. We don’t want lip service. We want to point to change in 
our community: to know that fewer of our dollars are going to the cops as we watch a 
new affordable housing building go up, read about how a well-funded Citizenship 
Corner is helping our community members pass citizenship tests, see playground 
improvements in Central Park, and so much more. I urge you to vote to amend the 
budget, diverting money away from the police and toward strengthening San Mateo. 
 
Thank you for your time. 
 
Sincerely, 
Aurora Kasten 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
22 of 119

--- page 23 ---
From: Debra Kattler < >  
Sent: Saturday, June 13, 2020 6:41 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; goethals@cityofsanmateo.org; Eric 
Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee 
<alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Budget allocations and the police 
 
Dear Council Members: 
 
My name is Debra Kattler and I am a resident of the City of San Mateo. I am writing with regard to recent 
calls nationwide to examine and reconsider how our nation's cities and states allocate budgets toward 
the police department. Research has shown that policing does not actually improve the safety and 
wellbeing of residents whether in suburban, urban, or rural areas. What does, however, support the 
wellbeing and safety of community members in cities across the United States is deep trust and 
investment in our communities through housing, health care services, jobs, mental health services, and 
education (some of these I am fully aware are under county rather than city jurisdiction).  
 
In reading the proposed city budget for FY 20-21, I was shocked to see $50.3 million allocated to funding 
the San Mateo police department.  This represents 26% of the budget and an increase, in dollars and 
percent, over last year's budget. With looming budget deficits as a result of COVID-19, I can't accept the 
prioritization of an increased police department budget over essential community resources in this next 
year. I join many other citizens of San Mateo, to demand a budget that adequately and effectively meets 
the needs of at-risk San Mateo residents during this trying and uncertain time when livelihoods are on 
the line. We demand a budget that supports community wellbeing, rather than one that empowers police. 
 
I was at the recent Black Lives Matter protest and saw for myself the show of force by the Sheriff's office 
in coordination with the San Mateo Police Department. Much of the outrage was directed at the Sheriff's 
Office however no one denied that this was Standard Operating Procedure for the SMPD to call in the 
Sheriff's Riot Squad. This is just one example of how police are trained to resort to a show of force to 
address challenging situations. I feel we are beyond the point of only seeking reform and need a hard look 
at how funds allocated to law enforcement could be better used in service to the people of San Mateo.  
 
I am urging you to revisit and revise the San Mateo city budget for the 2020-2021 fiscal year. I recognize 
that this is a big undertaking, but we can't miss this opportunity for real solutions to community issues 
that do not belong in the purview of the police. We need to have this conversation. 
 
Thank you, 
 
Debra Kattler 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
23 of 119

--- page 24 ---
Sent: Tuesday, June 16, 2020 7:31 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: City budget 20/21 and police funding 
 
Dear Council Members, 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to speak last night on the police budget (and affordable housing). While I 
appreciate that you listened and made some nice statements about examining police policies, I don’t think you 
truly heard the message. There seems to be a widely-held belief on the council that if citizens simply knew the 
benefits of police services, we would whole-heartedly agree with them. Speaking as a San Mateo resident, 
homeowner, and member of the Peninsula DSA organization: We do not, and will not agree that police 
services are justified or needed at the current funding level. 
 
The fundamental issue is this: Police reform is a failed experiment. Since the late 1960s when President 
Johnson appointed the Kerner Commission, it has been clear that resentment against police is the root of 
much civil unrest and reforms are necessary. In the last 50 years incremental reforms have been tried time 
and again, to little effect. Despite reform attempts, police across the country have been heavily militarized to 
fight the “war on drugs” and then the “war on terror.” Since 9/11 police departments have received literal 
military equipment. Police believe they are fighting wars on the streets of America, against the residents of 
our cities and towns. This is fundamentally incompatible with a role as civil servants. 
 
The Kerner Commission identified some clear ways to reduce unrest, such as better education, housing, and 
social services. Rather than sending police to address every symptom of an inequitable society, where their 
only solutions are intimidation, arrest, and violence, we should be treating the root causes: Provide better 
education, more affordable housing, more counseling, more training, more community outreach. Each of 
these areas should be served by experts in the field, not law enforcement. The problem is not a lack of laws 
being enforced; the problem is a lack of social services being provided. 
 
Rather than some vague platitudes about examining police policies, these are the actions I’m looking for city 
leadership to take: 
• 
Moratorium on hiring new police officers 
• 
Creation of new department to replace police as first-responders to non-violent emergency 
calls/complaints 
• 
Establish a civilian oversight board for police activity that reviews all complaints and use of force, and 
has disciplinary powers  
 
Final thought: Budgets are a zero-sum game. It’s not an issue of what benefits a police force does provide; it’s 
an issue of what spending money on police prevents the city for providing. The money spent on policing would 
provide more good to the public if spent on housing, education, and social services. 
 
Kind Regards, 
 
— 
Brian Keefer 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
24 of 119

--- page 25 ---
Sent: Monday, June 15, 2020 4:32 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
goethals@cityofsanmateo.org; Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla 
<RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan 
<dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Defund the Police 
 
Hello, 
My name is Aidan Keener, I am 18 and a lifelong resident of San Mateo. Tonight, I urge you to 
cut the absolutely bloated, $50.3 million budget we have allocated for the police. You all know 
the current situation: the entire world, from Minneapolis to San Francisco to Paris, is resisting 
police violence. The only way to solve this problem of unaccountable, racist armed thugs 
roaming our streets and getting away with murder is to cut them off. Why is the police budget 
increasing every year as crime continuously declines? Why is the police in our county receiving 
no repercussions when they have killed 29 innocent civilians since 2000? Why do we spend 
one-fifth of our budget on policing when we have out-of-control rents and homelessness, 
alongside a rapidly declining revenue stream due to COVID-19?  
 
We, the people of San Mateo, deserve better. Cut the police budget down to almost nothing, 
shift that money to services addressing crime's root causes: poverty and mental illness. We 
need housing, not more pistols. We need psychiatrists, not tasers. We need food and 
healthcare, not giant police cruisers. Pick a side tonight, councillors: stand with the black and 
brown communities brutalized by the police by taking our department's ability to commit 
violence away, or continue to fund the hive of racist murderers in the SMPD.  
-Aidan Keener, Peninsula DSA 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
25 of 119

--- page 26 ---
Sent: Monday, June 15, 2020 1:17 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: budgeting for police and services 
 
Dear council,  
I would like to see police jobs limited to policing and a larger portion of budget for social 
services and emergency responders. In addition, I would like to be sure San Mateo is teaching a 
strong deescalation practice to police and that the teaching be done frequently. 
Thank you 
 
 
--  
Joyce Keil 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
26 of 119

--- page 27 ---
From: Madhuri Kolhatkar <  
Sent: Tuesday, June 16, 2020 4:50 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Decrease Police Budget  
 
Hello City Council, 
 
I am writing to ask that you consider decreasing the budget for the San Mateo Police 
department, which I have read will be voted on in tonight's meeting. 
 
The San Mateo Police budget has grown by 67 percent over seven years, amid continual reports 
of disproportionate brutality by American police against black Americans and other minorities. 
It would be unwise to assume that San Mateo is immune from this phenomenon, especially 
considering the death of Chinedu Okobi at the hands of San Mateo County Sheriff's Deputies in 
2018. 
 
Moreover, it is important to ask why our police department's budget has grown so much faster 
than our city population, and whether that money could be spent more effectively elsewhere. 
One strong option is to fund specialized response teams and additional social workers with the 
skill set to support unhoused residents, people with substance disorders, and other nonviolent 
individuals who might otherwise interact with police.  
 
It is crucial that we as a city learn from recent events in Minneapolis, Louisville, Atlanta, and 
elsewhere, and affirm our support for our black residents by redistributing resources to better 
support public safety for all. 
 
Sincerely 
 
Madhuri 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
27 of 119

--- page 28 ---
Sent: Monday, June 15, 2020 1:39 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
goethals@cityofsanmateo.org; Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla 
<RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan 
<dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Defund SMPD 
 
Hello, 
My name is Sasha Lagocki and I am a resident of the City of San Mateo. I am writing 
with regard to recent calls nationwide to look at and reconsider how our nation's cities 
and states allocate our budgets toward the police department. As I am sure you are 
aware with regard to this now national conversation, much research has shown that 
policing does not actually improve the safety and wellbeing of residents across many 
different landscapes be it in suburban, urban and rural areas. What does, however, 
support the wellbeing and safety of community members in cities across the United 
States is deep trust and investment in our communities through housing, health care 
services, jobs, mental health services, and education  (some of these I am fully aware 
are under county rather than city jurisdiction).  
 
In reading the proposed city budget for FY 20-21, I am appalled that almost $50.3 
million is being allocated towards funding the San Mateo police department.  With 
looming budget deficits as a result of COVID-19, we do not accept the prioritization of 
an increased police department budget over essential community resources in this next 
year. We demand a budget that adequately and effectively meets the needs of at-risk 
San Mateo residents during this trying and uncertain time, when livelihoods are on the 
line. We demand a budget that supports community wellbeing, rather than one that 
empowers police. 
 
It is your duty to represent your constituents. I am urging you to completely revise the 
San Mateo city budget for 2020-2021 fiscal year. Public opinion is with me. 
Thank you for your time, 
 
Sasha Lagocki  
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
28 of 119

--- page 29 ---
Sent: Monday, June 15, 2020 4:35 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Please consider decreasing the San Mateo County Police budget 
 
Hello City Council 
I am writing to ask that you consider decreasing the budget for the San Mateo County Police 
department, which I have read will be voted on in tonight's meeting. 
Our county police budget has grown by 67 percent over seven years, amid continual reports of 
disproportionate brutality by American police against black Americans and other minorities. It 
would be unwise to assume that San Mateo County is immune from this phenomenon, 
especially considering the death of Chinedu Okobi at the hands of San Mateo County Sheriff's 
Deputies in 2018 
Moreover, it is important to ask why our police department's budget has grown so much faster 
than our county population, and whether that money could be spent more effectively 
elsewhere. One strong option is to fund specialized response teams and additional social 
workers with the skill set to support unhoused residents, people with substance disorders, and 
other nonviolent individuals who might otherwise interact with police.  
It is crucial that we as a county learn from recent events in Minneapolis, Louisville, Atlanta, and 
elsewhere, and affirm our support for our black residents by redistributing county resources to 
better support public safety for all. 
Sincerely, 
Laura 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
29 of 119

--- page 30 ---
Sent: Monday, June 15, 2020 4:56 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Tonight's vote on police budget 
 
Dear City Council Members 
 
Thank you for the work that you do. I am writing to ask that you delay the vote on the police 
budget at tonight's meeting to allow for a period of public comment.  
 
Given the current movement in this country and the concerns about police violence it seems 
wise to take extra time with this and consider where funds would be best spent. I'd personally 
like more time to review this issue and consider if funds could be used for mental health 
services for example.  
 
Thank you 
Kristen Lebacqz 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
30 of 119

--- page 31 ---
Yes, We Mean Literally Abolish the Police
The New York Times 
June 14, 2020 Sunday 20:00 EST
Copyright 2020 The New York Times Company All Rights Reserved
Section: OPINION; sunday
Length: 1425 words
Byline: Mariame Kaba
Highlight: Because reform won’t happen.
Body
Because reform won’t happen.
Congressional Democrats want to make it easier to identify and prosecute police misconduct; 
Joe Biden wants to give police departments            $300 million. But efforts to solve police 
violence through liberal reforms like these have failed for nearly a century.
Enough. We can’t reform the police. The only way to diminish police violence is to reduce 
contact between the public and the police.
There is not a single era in United States history in which the police were not a force of violence 
against black people. Policing in the South emerged from the slave patrolsin the 1700 and 
1800s that caught and returned runaway slaves. In the North, the first municipal police 
departments in the mid-1800s helped quash            labor strikes and riots against the rich. 
Everywhere, they have suppressed marginalized populations to protect the status quo.
So when you see a police officer pressing his knee into a black man’s neck until he dies, that’s 
the logical result of policing in America. When a police officer brutalizes a black person, he is 
doing what he sees as his job.
Now two weeks of nationwide protests have led some to call for defunding the police, while 
others argue that doing so would make us less safe.
The first thing to point out is that police officers don’t do what you think they do. They spend 
most of their time responding to noise complaints, issuing parking and traffic citations, and 
dealing with other noncriminal issues. We’ve been taught to think they “catch the bad guys; they 
chase the bank robbers; they find the serial killers,” said Alex Vitale, the coordinator of the 
Policing and Social Justice Project at Brooklyn College, in an interview with Jacobin. But this is 
“a big myth,” he said. “The vast majority of police officers make one felony arrest a year. If they 
make two, they’re cop of the month.”
STUDY SESSION Item 1
31 of 119

--- page 32 ---
Yes, We Mean Literally Abolish the Police
 Page 2 of 4
We can’t simply change their job descriptions to focus on the worst of the worst criminals. That’s 
not what they are set up to do.
Second, a “safe” world is not one in which the police keep black and other marginalized people 
in check through threats of arrest, incarceration, violence and death.
I’ve been advocating the abolition of the police for years. Regardless of your view on police 
power — whether you want to get rid of the police or simply to make them less violent — here’s 
an immediate demand we can all make: Cut the number of police in half and cut their budget in 
half. Fewer police officers equals fewer opportunities for them to brutalize and kill people. The 
idea is gaining traction in Minneapolis, Dallas, Los Angeles and other cities.
History is instructive, not because it offers us a blueprint for how to act in the present but 
because it can help us ask better questions for the future.
The Lexow Committee undertook the first major investigation into police misconduct in New 
York City in 1894. At the time, the most common complaint against the police was about 
“clubbing” — “the routine bludgeoning of citizens by patrolmen armed with nightsticks or 
blackjacks,” as the historian Marilynn Johnson            has written.
The Wickersham Commission, convened to study the criminal justice system and examine the 
problem of Prohibition enforcement, offered a            scathing indictment in 1931, including 
evidence of            brutal interrogation strategies. It put the blame on a            lack of 
professionalism among the police.
After the 1967 urban uprisings, the Kerner Commission found that “police actions were ‘final’ 
incidents before the outbreak of violence in 12 of the 24 surveyed disorders.” Its report listed a 
now-familiar set of recommendations, like working to build “community support for law 
enforcement” and reviewing police operations “in the ghetto, to ensure proper conduct by police 
officers.”
These commissions didn’t stop the violence; they just served as a kind of counterinsurgent 
function each time police violence led to protests. Calls for similar reforms were trotted out in 
response to the brutal police beating of Rodney King in 1991 and the rebellion that followed, and 
again after the killings of Michael Brown and Eric Garner. The            final report of the Obama 
administration’s President’s Task Force on 21st Century Policing resulted in procedural tweaks 
like implicit-bias training, police-community listening sessions, slight alterations of use-of-force 
policies and systems to identify potentially problematic officers early on.
But even a member of the task force, Tracey Meares, noted in 2017, “policing as we know it 
must be abolished before it can be transformed.”
The philosophy undergirding these reforms is that more rules will mean less violence. But police 
officers break rules all the time. Look what has happened over the past few weeks — police 
officers            slashing tires,            shoving old men on camera, and            arresting and 
injuring journalists and protesters. These officers are not worried about repercussions any more 
than Daniel Pantaleo, the former New York City police officer whose chokehold led to Eric 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
32 of 119

--- page 33 ---
Yes, We Mean Literally Abolish the Police
 Page 3 of 4
Garner’s death; he            waved to a camera filming the incident. He knew that the police union 
would back him up and he was right. He stayed on the job for five more years.
Minneapolis had instituted many of these “best practices” but failed to remove Derek Chauvin 
from the force despite            17 misconduct complaints over nearly two decades, culminating in 
the entire world watching as he knelt on George Floyd’s neck for almost            nine minutes.
Why on earth would we think the same reforms would work now? We need to change our 
demands. The surest way of reducing police violence is to reduce the power of the police, by 
cutting budgets and the number of officers.
But don’t get me wrong. We are not abandoning our communities to violence. We don’t want to 
just close police departments. We want to make them obsolete.
We should redirect the billions that now go to police departments toward providing health care, 
housing, education and good jobs. If we did this, there would be less need for the police in the 
first place.
We can build other ways of responding to harms in our society. Trained “community care 
workers” could do mental-health checks if someone needs help. Towns could use restorative-
justice models instead of throwing people in prison.
What about rape? The current approach hasn’t ended it. In fact most rapists never see the 
inside of a courtroom. Two-thirds of people who experience sexual violence never report it to 
anyone. Those who file police reports are often dissatisfied with the response. Additionally, 
police officers themselves            commit sexual assault alarmingly often.            A study in 2010 
found that sexual misconduct was the second most frequently reported form of police 
misconduct. In 2015, The Buffalo News            found that an officer was caught for sexual 
misconduct every five days.
When people, especially white people, consider a world without the police, they envision a 
society as violent as our current one, merely without law enforcement — and they shudder. As a 
society, we have been so indoctrinated with the idea that we solve problems by policing and 
caging people that many cannot imagine anything other than prisons and the police as solutions 
to violence and harm.
People like me who want to abolish prisons and police, however, have a vision of a different 
society, built on cooperation instead of individualism, on mutual aid instead of self-preservation. 
What would the country look like if it had billions of extra dollars to spend on housing, food and 
education for all? This change in society wouldn’t happen immediately, but the protests show 
that many people are ready to embrace a different vision of safety and justice.
When the streets calm and people suggest once again that we hire more black police officers or 
create more civilian review boards, I hope that we remember all the times those efforts have 
failed.
Mariame Kaba (           @prisonculture) is the director of            Project NIA, a grass-roots group 
that works to end youth incarceration, and an anti-criminalization organizer.
STUDY SESSION Item 1
33 of 119

--- page 34 ---
Yes, We Mean Literally Abolish the Police
 Page 4 of 4
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what 
you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some            tips. And here’s our email:            
letters@nytimes.com.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook,            Twitter (@NYTopinion) and       
     Instagram.
PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES)
Load-Date: June 14, 2020
End of Document
STUDY SESSION Item 1
34 of 119

--- page 35 ---
Sent: Tuesday, June 16, 2020 3:17 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; goethals@cityofsanmateo.org; Eric 
Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee 
<alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Chet Lexvold <clexvold@gmail.com> 
Subject: San Mateo Police budget / Last night's Council meeting 
 
Dear San Mateo City Councilmembers, 
 
I appreciated the opportunity to voice my concerns about the police receiving 35% of San Mateo's budget last 
night. The overwhelming majority of public comments, both written and verbal, asked you to reduce the 
police budget and redirect that money to non-police services. Additionally, VOCA surveyed our city on this 
issue and found a majority (56%) want to reduce the police budget, with an additional 14% undecided or 
having no opinion, and a plurality (31%) asking for "Much less funding" for the police. While I appreciate that 
some of you expressed an openness to listening on this issue and having a conversation, I hope you'll 
understand our skepticism after you voted to pass the police budget last night as proposed, after the majority 
of your constituents asked you to do the opposite. 
 
Still, I want to give you the benefit of the doubt and take you up on your offer to continue the conversation. 
Perhaps last night was your first exposure to the idea of defunding the carceral budget and redirecting that 
money to services that benefit Black, Latino, low-income, working-class, and marginalized communities. 
 
Here are a variety of resources, mostly produced by Black women, that I've found particularly useful in 
understanding the role and growth of police in this country, how we became a state of mass incarceration 
(housing 25% of the world's prisoners), and how to stop perpetuating this system of violence. 
 
1. "13th," the award-winning documentary by Ava DuVernay showing how massive police budgets and mass 
incarceration grew out of this country's history of slavery and segregation. Available on Youtube and Netflix. 
 
2. An interview on June 10th (both podcast and transcript available) with Ruth Wilson Gilmore, author of 
“Golden Gulag: Prisons, Surplus, Crisis, and Opposition in Globalizing California.” Gilmore is one of the world’s 
preeminent scholars on prisons and the machinery of carceral punishment and policing. In this discussion, she 
offers a detailed analysis of the relentless expansion and funding of police and prisons, and how locking 
people in cages has become central to the American project. Gilmore offers a comprehensive road map for 
understanding how we have arrived at the present political moment of brutality and rebellion, and she lays 
out the need for prison abolition and defunding police forces. 
 
3. A New York Times op-ed by Mariame Kaba from June 14, 2020, titled "Yes, We Mean Literally Abolish the 
Police" (I have attached a PDF of this article in case you hit a paywall). Some choice quotes from Ms. Kaba's 
outstanding piece: 
• 
"The only way to diminish police violence is to reduce contact between the public and the police." 
• 
"There is not a single era in United States history in which the police were not a force of violence 
against black people." 
• 
..."[P]olice officers don’t do what you think they do. They spend most of their time responding to noise 
complaints, issuing parking and traffic citations, and dealing with other noncriminal issues." 
• 
After thoroughly documenting over a century of failed reforms meant to curb police brutality, Ms. Kaba 
writes: 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
35 of 119

--- page 36 ---
The philosophy undergirding these reforms is that more rules will mean less violence. But police officers break 
rules all the time. Look what has happened over the past few weeks — police officers slashing tires, shoving 
old men on camera, and arresting and injuring journalists and protesters. These officers are not worried about 
repercussions any more than Daniel Pantaleo, the former New York City police officer whose chokehold led to 
Eric Garner’s death; he waved to a camera filming the incident. He knew that the police union would back him 
up and he was right. He stayed on the job for five more years.  
Minneapolis had instituted many of these “best practices” but failed to remove Derek Chauvin from the force 
despite 17 misconduct complaints over nearly two decades, culminating in the entire world watching as he 
knelt on George Floyd’s neck for almost nine minutes. 
Why on earth would we think the same reforms would work now? We need to change our demands. The 
surest way of reducing police violence is to reduce the power of the police, by cutting budgets and the number 
of officers. 
 
4. Ali Vitale's book, "The End of Policing," or his short article in The Guardian, "The answer to police violence is 
not 'reform'. It's defunding. Here's why," with the subhead: "'Bias training, body cameras, community 
dialogues – Minneapolis has tried them all. We need a better response.'" 
 
5. If you believe Black Lives Matter, check out the #1 demand of the Movement for Black Lives: Defund the 
Police. 
 
I hope you will educate yourselves on the systemically racist and brutal history of policing and prisons in the 
U.S., and how reform after reform has failed. 
 
Finally, one of the most disappointing aspects of last night's meeting was the condescension some of you 
displayed toward the people you are supposed to serve, admonishing us to "educate" ourselves on these 
"complex" issues, specifically the "Police Activities League." We know exactly what the PAL is, and what it 
does. Considering the school-to-prison pipeline and history of racist policing in this country, we don't want 
those same people with guns and handcuffs distributing food to, or playing soccer with, our children, 
especially when any non-police organization or group can provide those services. 
 
Further, PAL is a nonprofit organization, and we do not believe it is proper to spend public, taxpayer dollars to 
help staff a nonprofit run by police. After city staff initially claimed all public money was reimbursed by PAL, 
we learned that's not true, and that more than one police FTE is assigned to staff and supervise PAL. What's 
most distressing is that Mr. Rodriguez literally sits on the Board of PAL, and is simultaneously voting to fund it 
with public money in his position on the Council. This is a clear conflict of interest! Mr. Rodriguez should resign 
from that position immediately. 
 
I appreciate your time and consideration. I look forward to not only our conversation, but actually taking 
action to defund the San Mateo Police and refund services that uplift our marginalized communities and 
provide all of our neighbors with a dignified life. 
 
Chet Lexvold 
San Mateo 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
36 of 119

--- page 37 ---
Sent: Wednesday, June 17, 2020 1:24 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Joe Goethals 
<jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org>; Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick 
Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane 
Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Your decision to make no cuts to the police budget 
 
Dear San Mateo City Council, 
 
My name is Hayley and I am a local resident. I am emailing to express my anger and frustration 
over your decision to make no cuts to the police department’s 2021 budget. This budget totals 
$50.3 million, which is 35% of the general fund and a 67% increase since 2013. Not only that, 
but you've made this decision in a moment when we are facing a structural deficit due to 
COVID-19 and a lack of funding for essential social services and housing programs. 
 
I am disgusted that the City Council has ignored calls to defund the police even just enough to 
get us back to 2013 spending levels. We don’t need a Police Activities League. We don’t need 
armed officers in our kids’ schools. What we need is fewer police officers and more health care 
workers, social workers, and emergency response teams. These professionals don’t need 
weapons. They’re trained to handle crises related to everything from substance abuse and 
domestic violence to houselessness and mental health problems. Policies to “improve the 
police” are not enough. Implicit bias training and community relations initiatives aren’t working. 
You want to believe that San Mateo’s police are different, not like the “bad apples” in 
Minneapolis or Louisville. But they’re part of the same system that is diverting precious 
community resources away from programs that truly promote safety and equality in our 
community. 
 
Show us that you’re listening. We don’t want lip service. We want to point to change in our 
community: to know that fewer of our dollars are going to the cops as we watch a new 
affordable housing building go up, read about how a well-funded Citizenship Corner is helping 
our community members pass citizenship tests, see playground improvements in Central Park, 
and so much more. I urge you to vote to amend the budget, diverting money away from the 
police and toward strengthening San Mateo. 
 
Thank you for your time. 
 
Hayley MacMillen 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
37 of 119

--- page 38 ---
Sent: Sunday, July 12, 2020 9:59 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Joe Goethals 
<jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org>; Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla 
<RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan 
<dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Defund San Mateo PD 
 
Hello, 
My name is Harrison Meek and I am a resident of the City of San Mateo. I am writing with regard to 
recent calls nationwide to look at and reconsider how our nation's cities and states allocate our 
budgets toward the police department. As I am sure you are aware with regard to this now national 
conversation, much research has shown that policing does not actually improve the safety and 
wellbeing of residents across many different landscapes be it in suburban, urban and rural areas. 
What does, however, support the wellbeing and safety of community members in cities across the 
United States is deep trust and investment in our communities through housing, health care 
services, jobs, mental health services, and education  (some of these I am fully aware are under 
county rather than city jurisdiction).  
In reading the proposed city budget for FY 20-21, I am appalled that almost $50.3 million is being 
allocated towards funding the San Mateo police department.  With looming budget deficits as a 
result of COVID-19, we do not accept the prioritization of an increased police department budget 
over essential community resources in this next year. We demand a budget that adequately and 
effectively meets the needs of at-risk San Mateo residents during this trying and uncertain time, 
when livelihoods are on the line. We demand a budget that supports community wellbeing, rather 
than one that empowers police. 
 
It is your duty to represent your constituents. I am urging you to completely revise the San Mateo 
city budget for 2020-2021 fiscal year. Public opinion is with me. 
Thank you for your time, 
Harrison Meek 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
38 of 119

--- page 39 ---
7/13/20 
NO DEFUNDING OUR GREAT POLICE DEPT 
Please listen to the calm voices of our beautiful city that do not want to defund our terrific Police dept. 
 
They have always been so polite and helpful and we are grateful to live in a city that has helped to 
create such a great police force. 
 
Thank you for listening, 
Shirley Moore 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
39 of 119

--- page 40 ---
From: Ashley Pérez < >  
Sent: Friday, June 12, 2020 1:45 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; goethals@cityofsanmateo.org; Eric 
Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee 
<alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Defund San Mateo PD 
 
Hello, 
 
My name is Ashley Pérez, and I am a resident of the City of San Mateo. I am writing with regard to recent calls 
nationwide to look at and reconsider how our nation's cities and states allocate our budgets toward the police 
department. 
 
As I am sure you are aware with regard to this now national conversation, much research has shown that 
policing does not actually improve the safety and wellbeing of residents across many different landscapes be it 
in suburban, urban, and rural areas. What does, however, support the wellbeing and safety of community 
members in cities across the United States is deep trust and investment in our communities through housing, 
health care services, jobs, mental health services, and education (some of these I am fully aware are under 
county rather than city jurisdiction).  
 
In reading the proposed city budget for FY 20-21, I am appalled that almost $50.3 million is being allocated 
towards funding the San Mateo police department. With looming budget deficits as a result of COVID-19, we 
do not accept the prioritization of an increased police department budget over essential community 
resources. We demand a budget that adequately and effectively meets the needs of at-risk San Mateo 
residents during this trying and uncertain time, when livelihoods are on the line. We demand a budget that 
supports community wellbeing, rather than one that empowers police. 
 
Adding an Accountability page and hosting town halls are simply not enough. Policing is an institution with 
historical roots in surveilling and criminalizing Black and brown people in the U.S. simply for being, which 
continues to this day, including in San Mateo. In order to truly "protect" our local community, you need to 
invest in their health and well-being by reducing the police budget and instead investing this money in social 
services. In order to meet the needs of and make San Mateo a stronger community, I urge you to implement 
actual change, such as removing police officers from all local schools and completely revising the city budget. 
 
Thank you for your time, 
Ashley Pérez 
--  
Ashley Pérez, ScM 
Pronouns: she, her, hers 
Doctoral Candidate, Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences 
University of California, San Francisco 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
40 of 119

--- page 41 ---
Sent: Friday, June 19, 2020 2:30 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Eric Rodriguez 
<erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee 
<alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Joe Goethals 
<jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Community Input Regarding Police Budget 
 
Hi all,  
 
My name is Ashley Pérez, and I am a resident of the City of San Mateo. I am writing in response to the 
discussion about defunding the San Mateo police department that took place at the City Council meeting on 
June 15.  
 
It was great to hear so many community members engaged in discussion about the police budget, and I 
appreciated that the council members took a significant amount of time after the public comment period to 
discuss having a follow up meeting to discuss, and hopefully revise, the police budget specifically. I look 
forward to this meeting.  
 
However, I also want to raise several concerns I have based on these meetings. I urge you to do the following:  
 
Prioritize assessing residents' needs. I was appalled to learn that about 35% of the City's budget is allocated to 
the police department, which is significantly higher than the proportion of the budget allocated to the police 
in, say, San Francisco or Oakland. While I am grateful you seem willing to hold additional meetings about this, I 
urge you to do this in a way that actually assesses our community's needs and wants.  
 
Proceeding by giving a presentation about the police budget, describing line by line how funds are allocated, 
seems to be merely a tactic to justify the current police budget. If you gave me any set amount of money, I'm 
sure I could "justify" its spending. This does not address community members' concerns about San Mateo's 
current spending on the police. Instead, you need to assess needs that are not currently being met (e.g., 
housing, food security) and evaluate what we, as a collective community, prioritize. You need to actively seek 
input that you actually take into account rather than merely a "public comment" period that serves as a 
performative space to make it seem like community members have input.  
 
Recognize policing as an institution. It is incredibly frustrating when city officials, both during the City Council 
meeting and police department town halls, attempt to utilize the "bad apples" argument, claiming that police 
violence results from a few "bad officers", and, of course, that no such officers exist in San Mateo. This misses 
the very point of the conversations that are currently happening about policing, both in our very own 
community and at the national level.  
 
We are talking about policing as an institution. Our country has a long history of the police, an instituion 
originally designed to preserve slavery in the U.S., using their social power to subjugate, torture, imprison, and 
murder Black and Brown people at disproportionate rates. This includes the "war on drugs" that, ironically, 
was alluded to during the recent police town hall in a way that seemed to suggest that substance use in our 
community can be resolved by policing, even though extensive research demonstrates this is not the case.  
 
Understand what defunding means. During the city council meeting, it was highlighted that police officers 
have been delivering meals to "community members in need". Comments such as this again indicate that you 
are missing the point. The point isn't that we shouldn't be supporting our community members in need. Of 
course we should. The point is that delivering meals is not in a police officer's job description and, therefore, is 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
41 of 119

--- page 42 ---
a huge waste of resources that could be much more efficiently allocated. Thus, ironically, you are justifying 
defunding the police.  
 
I wholeheartedly acknowledge that community member opinions about police abolishment vary widely. That 
is not the point of my message. Rather, I plead that you listen and (un)learn. You might not agree (at least at 
this moment in time) with those of us advocating for defunding the police. But the least you can do is keep up 
with the news and actively listen and reflect on your community members' concerns, as is your duty as a city 
council member.  
 
Sincerely,  
Ashley Pérez 
--  
Ashley Pérez, ScM 
Pronouns: she, her, hers 
Doctoral Candidate, Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences 
University of California, San Francisco 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
42 of 119

--- page 43 ---
Sent: Sunday, June 28, 2020 10:05 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
goethals@cityofsanmateo.org; Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla 
<RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan 
<dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Defund San Mateo PD 
 
Hello, 
 
My name is Anna Petrosky and I am a resident of the City of San Mateo. I am writing with 
regard to recent calls nationwide to look at and reconsider how our nation's cities and 
states allocate our budgets toward the police department. As I am sure you are aware with 
regard to this now national conversation, much research has shown that policing does not 
actually improve the safety and wellbeing of residents across many different landscapes be 
it in suburban, urban and rural areas. What does, however, support the wellbeing and 
safety of community members in cities across the United States is deep trust and 
investment in our communities through housing, health care services, jobs, mental health 
services, and education (some of these I am fully aware are under county rather than city 
jurisdiction).  
 
In reading the proposed city budget for FY 20-21, I am appalled that almost $50.3 million is 
being allocated towards funding the San Mateo police department.  With looming budget 
deficits as a result of COVID-19, we do not accept the prioritization of an increased police 
department budget over essential community resources in this next year. We demand a 
budget that adequately and effectively meets the needs of at-risk San Mateo residents 
during this trying and uncertain time, when livelihoods are on the line. We demand a 
budget that supports community wellbeing, rather than one that empowers police. 
 
It is your duty to represent your constituents. I am urging you to completely revise the San 
Mateo city budget for 2020-2021 fiscal year. Public opinion is with me. 
 
Thank you for your time, 
 
Anna Petrosky 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
43 of 119

--- page 44 ---
From: Sharon Prager < >  
Sent: Tuesday, July 14, 2020 11:48 AM 
To: Samantha Weigel <sweigel@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: POLICING IN SAN MATEO 
 
Hi Samantha, 
 
Could you please forward my letter, below, regarding policing in San Mateo? 
 
Thank you very much. 
Sharon Prager 
 
 
Dear Members of the City Council, City Manager Corbett, and Police Chief Ed Barberini, 
I understand that the City is examining the future of policing in today’s Zoom meeting and in a July 
20th study session. 
I am writing to share my comments, thoughts, and experiences. 
The tenor of this topic seems to be driven and influenced by the recent national civic unrest, and 
inordinately one-sided and hysteric reporting by the media, not by any specific negative actions or 
treatment that I’m aware of by the San Mateo Police Department.  
In my opinion, it is mandatory during any period of history that the environment in which judgments 
and analysis are undertaken must be weighted heavily for application of fairness.  Many 
pronouncements and events that occur during a given period as “facts” – especially in an overheated 
environment – are often found to be untrue weeks, years, or even decades later.  
It appears that the City’s current meetings and sessions related to policing are being directly 
determined by the greater national unrest, and perhaps by a few self-interested parties, but not by 
any majority of local San Mateo residents. 
Therefore, I’m approaching this exercise as a “performance review.”  As an ordinary citizen, what do I 
think of local police performance? 
For those of us not criminally inclined, the most important attributes are safety and 
responsiveness.  Since I moved here nearly 20 years ago, the San Mateo Police Department has 
excelled in those areas.  It is also important that they are actively involved in the community, and 
between their presence at business and community events, City Council meetings, schools, 
membership associations, or contributions on Next Door, THEY ARE THERE. 
I would also like to compliment Officer Michael Haobsh for his commitment to the community.  Not 
long ago I told him about an essential business where customers were not wearing face coverings, 
and the ability to social distance in the space was difficult.  Officer Haobsh immediately contacted the 
management/owner and signs were promptly posted and noticeable before entering the 
business.  He may have prevented additional cases of COVID-19.  He actively communicates on 
Next Door and the neighborhood is very appreciative. 
I’m sure residents can give you many good examples of police effectiveness – certainly they have on 
Next Door – from the minor to the major.  
STUDY SESSION Item 1
44 of 119

--- page 45 ---
Please maintain the Police budget and increase it if and when the City is able to do so.  I do support 
continuing to give them the latest and best training and equipment to do their jobs.  Since much 
Police work concerns community engagement, it is not only unnecessary to strip the budget to fund 
other agencies, but dilutes the Department’s purpose. 
Finally, when a negative attitude is propagated – whether by City leadership – or others with their own 
agenda – that does not serve our community.  Residents will not feel comfortable reaching out to the 
police when necessary, report information, or help the police solve a crime. 
 
It is important that the City of San Mateo preserve, praise and encourage one of our best and most 
effective assets. 
Sincerely, 
Sharon Prager 
San Mateo 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
45 of 119

--- page 46 ---
Sent: Friday, June 26, 2020 11:08 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
goethals@cityofsanmateo.org; Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Defund San Mateo PD 
 
Hello, 
My name is Anthony Salgado-Nava and I am a resident of the City of San Mateo. I am 
writing with regard to recent calls nationwide to look at and reconsider how our nation's 
cities and states allocate our budgets toward the police department. As I am sure you are 
aware with regard to this now national conversation, much research has shown that 
policing does not actually improve the safety and wellbeing of residents across many 
different landscapes be it in suburban, urban and rural areas. What does, however, support 
the wellbeing and safety of community members in cities across the United States is deep 
trust and investment in our communities through housing, health care services, jobs, 
mental health services, and education  (some of these I am fully aware are under county 
rather than city jurisdiction).  
 
In reading the proposed city budget for FY 20-21, I am appalled that almost $50.3 million is 
being allocated towards funding the San Mateo police department.  With looming budget 
deficits as a result of COVID-19, we do not accept the prioritization of an increased police 
department budget over essential community resources in this next year. We demand a 
budget that adequately and effectively meets the needs of at-risk San Mateo residents 
during this trying and uncertain time, when livelihoods are on the line. We demand a 
budget that supports community wellbeing, rather than one that empowers police. 
 
It is your duty to represent your constituents. I am urging you to completely revise the San 
Mateo city budget for 2020-2021 fiscal year. Public opinion is with me. 
Thank you for your time, 
Anthony Salgado-Nava 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
46 of 119

--- page 47 ---
Sent: Monday, July 13, 2020 11:51 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Don't Defund the SMPD! 
 
Dear Mr. Mayor and City Council, 
I realize that we are in a time of high tension as black lives are being unfairly targeted 
by many police departments.  I think that those police departments that have a real 
history of racial profiling should need to revisit their policies about how much they 
protect their own.  As a resident of the City of San Mateo I want to say for the record 
that I think it would be huge mistake to follow the lead of cities like NYC and 
Minneapolis in defunding their police department.  Look at the number of crimes and 
murders soaring in those cities since their announcements of redirecting funds from 
their police department to other areas like mental health!  We here in San Mateo have 
never had a history of unfair racial profiling and violence against people of any particular 
race.  While I do believe we too should re-examine and put in policies to make sure that 
we never do I think it is absolutely wrong to defund the police.  It is obvious to me that 
anti-American and anti-law groups such as Antifa are using these incidences to weaken 
the fabric of American society.  Don't fall prey to this!!   Keep our police force strong to 
keep San Mateo safe!!!! 
 
Humbly, 
 
Kalvin Sid 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
47 of 119

--- page 48 ---
Sent: Thursday, June 25, 2020 4:28 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
goethals@cityofsanmateo.org; Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla 
<RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan 
<dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Defund San Mateo PD 
 
Hello, 
My name is Jules Smith and I am a resident of the City of San Mateo. I am writing with 
regard to recent calls nationwide to look at and reconsider how our nation's cities and 
states allocate our budgets toward the police department. As I am sure you are aware 
with regard to this now national conversation, much research has shown that policing 
does not actually improve the safety and wellbeing of residents across many different 
landscapes be it in suburban, urban and rural areas. What does, however, support the 
wellbeing and safety of community members in cities across the United States is deep 
trust and investment in our communities through housing, health care services, jobs, 
mental health services, and education  (some of these I am fully aware are under 
county rather than city jurisdiction).  
 
In reading the proposed city budget for FY 20-21, I am appalled that almost $50.3 
million is being allocated towards funding the San Mateo police department.  With 
looming budget deficits as a result of COVID-19, we do not accept the prioritization of 
an increased police department budget over essential community resources in this next 
year. We demand a budget that adequately and effectively meets the needs of at-risk 
San Mateo residents during this trying and uncertain time, when livelihoods are on the 
line. We demand a budget that supports community wellbeing, rather than one that 
empowers police.  
 
It is your duty to represent your constituents. I am urging you to completely revise the 
San Mateo city budget for 2020-2021 fiscal year. Public opinion is with me.  
 
Thank you for your time, 
Jules Smith 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
48 of 119

--- page 49 ---
From: Chris Snook < >  
Sent: Sunday, June 14, 2020 4:25 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 2020-2021 proposed police budget 
 
Council - 
 
I am disturbed to see that the 2020-2021 proposed budget includes police funding ($50.2 
million) that represents a 67% increase over 
2013-2014 actual expenditures ($29,955,263). While it's great that some of that went to de-
escalation training, nothing in my experience as a resident supports an increase in policing 
overall. 
 
With renewed attention on police violence, it may be tempting to spend more on training to 
get better police, but research has shown that the impact of that kind of reform is marginal at 
best. We need to transform emergency response, not reform it. Instead of giving police a bit of 
social worker training, we should dispatch experts in the appropriate fields for calls that don't 
require an armed response, which is the vast majority of them. 
 
That transformation needs funding far more than the police department does. If they want 
more de-escalation training, they can pay for it by eliminating the unnecessary activities league 
and reducing field operations where the mere arrival of police is an unnecessary escalation no 
matter how well behaved they are. 
 
- Chris 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
49 of 119

--- page 50 ---
From: Sean Stannard-Stockton <sean@stannard-stockton.com>  
Sent: Monday, June 15, 2020 3:50 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Police Budget Vote 
 
Hi, 
My name is Sean Stannard-Stockton and I'm a resident of San Mateo (198 Warren 
Road). I understand there is a vote tonight to increase the budget of the police 
department. I would like to respectfully request that you delay the vote and reschedule 
to a future date that allows time to solicit additional public comment. Given the very 
rapid change in public views on police department funding, I believe it is critical that 
you ensure your vote reflects the will of the voters and to do so you must solicit a new 
round of public comments. 
 
~Sean Stannard-Stockton 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
50 of 119

--- page 51 ---
Sent: Sunday, July 12, 2020 3:25 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Do NOT Defund SMPD - Your July 20th Study Session 
 
Dear Council -  
 
Just as one police officer is not representative of all police, we can not compare just any police 
department to our fine San Mateo Police Department.   
 
As council members, you know full well the kind of effort the SMPD has put into its community 
relationships.  Perhaps the out of town Tom, Dick and Harry, who have been vocal on this 
matter via your Zoom meetings, are not as familiar.  Of course, as a Board member of the Police 
Activities League, I am keenly aware of all that is done not only to serve residents, but to build 
bridges with them on a daily basis, resulting in real relationships.  Just two weeks ago, our Chief 
noted that San Mateo attracts officers due to its reputation for having a good relationship with 
residents.   
 
Policies and expectations of officers can easily be underscored without mucking about with 
police funding.  The wind is blowing wildly at the moment. But it is not a time for knee-jerk 
reactions.  Let's review how the recent demonstration in our city was handled by the 
SMPD.  Even with the threat of a fringe group to the police station, San Mateo Village and 
Hillsdale Mall that day, the end result was that NO ONE was hurt, NO arrests were necessary, 
NO property damage occurred, and demonstrators were able to demonstrate peacefully.  HOW 
DID THAT HAPPEN?  Through the careful planning, coordination and care by the SMPD.  Would 
we reward that with defunding?? 
  
Who did Councilmember Lee call when a rock was thrown through her window?  San Mateo's 
finest. 
 
It's a grave mistake to allow outsiders to cement our future.  None of the residents I have 
spoken to had any idea of your Study Session, and their jaws dropped to learn the subject of 
defunding.  Residents want what we already have - one of the best police departments around. 
 
Don't fix what's not broken. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Lisa Taner 
Actual San Mateo Resident 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
51 of 119

--- page 52 ---
Sent: Friday, June 26, 2020 12:04 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
goethals@cityofsanmateo.org; Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla 
<RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan 
<dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Defund San Mateo PD 
 
Hello, 
 
My name is Kaitlyn Tom and I am a resident of the City of San Mateo. I am writing with 
regard to recent calls nationwide to look at and reconsider how our nation's cities and 
states allocate our budgets toward the police department. As I am sure you are aware with 
regard to this now national conversation, much research has shown that policing does not 
actually improve the safety and wellbeing of residents across many different landscapes be 
it in suburban, urban and rural areas. What does, however, support the wellbeing and 
safety of community members in cities across the United States is deep trust and 
investment in our communities through housing, health care services, jobs, mental health 
services, and education  (some of these I am fully aware are under county rather than city 
jurisdiction).  
 
In reading the proposed city budget for FY 20-21, I am appalled that almost $50.3 million is 
being allocated towards funding the San Mateo police department.  With looming budget 
deficits as a result of COVID-19, we do not accept the prioritization of an increased police 
department budget over essential community resources in this next year. We demand a 
budget that adequately and effectively meets the needs of at-risk San Mateo residents 
during this trying and uncertain time, when livelihoods are on the line. We demand a 
budget that supports community wellbeing, rather than one that empowers police. 
 
It is your duty to represent your constituents. I am urging you to completely revise the San 
Mateo city budget for 2020-2021 fiscal year. Public opinion is with me. 
 
Thank you for your time, 
 
Kaitlyn Tom 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
52 of 119

--- page 53 ---
Sent: Sunday, June 28, 2020 2:44 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
goethals@cityofsanmateo.org; Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla 
<RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan 
<dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: URGENT Defund San Mateo PD 
 
Hello, 
My name is Julia Yarak and I am a resident of the City of San Mateo. I am writing with 
regard to recent calls nationwide to look at and reconsider how our nation's cities and 
states allocate our budgets toward the police department. Research has shown that 
policing does not actually improve the safety and wellbeing of residents across many 
different landscapes be it in suburban, urban and rural areas. What does support the 
wellbeing and safety of community members in cities across the United States is 
investment in housing, health care services, jobs, mental health services, and education 
(some of these I am fully aware are under county rather than city jurisdiction).  
 
In reading the proposed city budget for FY 20-21, I am appalled that almost $50.3 million is 
being allocated towards funding the San Mateo police department.  With looming budget 
deficits as a result of COVID-19, we do not accept the prioritization of an increased police 
department budget over essential community resources in this next year. We demand a 
budget that adequately and effectively meets the needs of at-risk San Mateo residents 
during this trying and uncertain time, when livelihoods are on the line. We demand a 
budget that supports community wellbeing, rather than one that empowers police. 
 
The police do not keep us safe. They are an inherently violent institution who make 
everyone, and especially black and brown San Mateoans, unsafe. The only way to create a 
safer city is by investing in community resources.  
 
It is your duty to represent your constituents. I am urging you to completely revise the San 
Mateo city budget for 2020-2021 fiscal year. Public opinion is with me. 
 
Thank you for your time, 
 
Julia Yarak 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
53 of 119

--- page 54 ---
From: Joy Zhou < >  
Sent: Sunday, June 28, 2020 7:34 AM 
To: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: DEFUND THE POLICE 
 
Hello, 
 
My name is Joy Zhou, I live in San Mateo County and have read recent news that the county has 
approved a new budget to provide 30 more tasers to the SMCP. This comes right after San 
Mateo County released a statement about Black Lives Matter. The timing is wholly 
inappropriate and shows exactly where officials still lie on this issue. I demand that San Mateo 
County move funds away from the police department and into social work, community 
programs, and non-violent de-escalation, instead of further supplying or financially supporting 
the police department.  
 
Sincerely, 
Joy Zhou 
 
STUDY SESSION Item 1
54 of 119

--- page 55 ---
Sent: Monday, July 20, 2020 1:16 PM 
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Public Comment for special meeting on policing 
 
Good evening to the City Council, 
My name is Michael Benavidez and I am writing as a member of the Peninsula chapter of the Democratic 
Socialists of America to emphatically demand that the San Mateo Police Department be defunded and that the 
community of San Mateo be REFUNDED in ways that strengthen social services, housing, health, education, 
and other vital community infrastructure. As we continue to experience a worldwide pandemic and the 
accompanying economic shockwaves, well-funded community services will be essential to the well-being of 
San Mateo's residents, especially those who are already marginalized. Defund the bloated police budget, 
specifically the Police Activities League which allows the SMPD to launder their public image and forces 
interaction with armed officers on vulnerable children. 
 
Thank you 
 
STUDY SESSION ITEM #1
55 of 119

--- page 56 ---
From: Edward Dumke < >  
Sent: Sunday, July 19, 2020 6:43 PM 
Subject: Fwd: response to Mayor Goethal's "New Normal" message 
 
>  
>                A response to Mayor Goethas’  “New Normal” Message. I found the message disturbing and potentially 
dangerous. 
>  
>               So many politicians are falling all over themselves in their attempt to appear woke and conform to what they 
perceive is in vogue at the moment. 
>             One hears them echo the popular cliches like inclusive, diversity, social justice, implicit bias and institutional 
racism. All meaningful terms but so  
>             often used to advocate policies and programs that have a deleterious effect. For example they are today being 
used to advocate defunding the  
>             police or at least reducing their ability to enforce the law. Today one only has to observe the sky rocking crime 
rate in our cities where the police have 
>             had their hands tied. And historically we have witnessed the same thing happening in other cities most notably 
Ferguson MO. and Baltimore MD. 
>             It is called the Ferguson Effect and tragically it effects overwhelming the Black Community. where people and 
often little children are killed in senseless 
>              violence. 
>  
>              I know that the self righteous liberal elites who live in safe neighborhoods love to virtue signal by advocating so 
called progressive policies. Yet they 
>             never contemplate the pernicious effects of those policies. But that doesn’t matter. All they really want is to 
grasp that sense of moral superiority that 
>             comes from being woke.  
>  
>             I was born in Mills Hospital and have lived most of my 74 years in San Mateo. I love my city. I live in a diverse, 
happy, friendly neighborhood that has  
>           every race and many ethnic groups. We all respect and help each other. And we often party together. I think the 
same can be said of our schools and 
>           city as a whole. I also have great respect and admiration for our kind, helpful and professional police force. SO 
DON’T MESS IT UP!!!  If you have the 
>           need, find some other cause. Go tilt at some other windmill. ( I hope I am not being politically incorrect by 
mentioning the famous Spanish author Miguel 
>           de Cervantes who coined the phrase about windmills. His  
> statue was pulled down by those rioting in San Francisco.) . 
>                                                                                                                                             
> Faithfully, Reverend Edward Dumke 
 
STUDY SESSION ITEM #1
56 of 119

--- page 57 ---
From: Kristie Eglsaer < >  
Sent: Monday, July 20, 2020 2:06 PM 
To: Joe Goethals <jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org>; Eric Rodriguez 
<erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence 
Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council 
(San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: Comments for upcoming City Council Meeting and Council Review of Police Budget 
and Policies 
 
Regarding policing, I wanted to add one more comment in support of creating community 
alternatives for vulnerable populations in need of intervention, such as those with mental 
illness, as laid out in the CRISES Act up for vote in the CA Senate. These kind of services could 
have been life saving for Chinedu Valentine Okobi. Now is the time for the City of San Mateo to 
ensure the infrastructure is in place for these kind of community alternatives to eventually 
receive state funding.  
 
https://www.dailycal.org/2020/07/13/restorative-solution-ab-2054-creates-police-alternative-
aims-to-redistribute-responsibilities/ 
 
https://www.smdailyjournal.com/news/local/grieving-family-seeks-answers-after-
death/article_9c293ba8-d1c2-11e8-967d-93f388f7e0a0.html 
 
STUDY SESSION ITEM #1
57 of 119

--- page 58 ---
From: Kristie Eglsaer < > 
Sent: Sunday, July 19, 2020 10:02 PM 
To: Joe Goethals <jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org>; Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick 
Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan 
<dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Comments for upcoming City Council Meeting and Council Review of Police Budget and Policies  
  
Dear Council Members,  
 
I am writing to provide comments for the July 20 City Council Meeting as well as the July 20 Council Review of 
Police Budget and Policies.  
 
From Nextdoor I heard about the tragic traffic accident involving a young child, and that his family would be 
joining the meeting to tell their story and ask for action. I am writing that you please prioritize safety for 
pedestrians and bicyclists and take concrete action to implement San Mateo’s Vision Zero Plan. Please see 
actions as stated in the post:  
 
https://nextdoor.com/events/3646353?init_source=copy_link_share 
 
“Vision Zero recognizes that people will sometimes make mistakes, so the road system and related policies 
should be designed to ensure those inevitable mistakes do not result in severe injuries or fatalities. This means 
that system designers and policymakers are expected to improve the roadway environment, policies (such as 
speed management), and other related systems to lessen the severity of crashes.” 
https://visionzeronetwork.org/about/what-is-vision-zero/ 
 
I’d like to highlight the need for creating speed reduction and traffic calming plans including:  
-speed cushions 
-curb-outs 
-traffic rerouting 
-street closures 
-technological solutions 
-making pedestrian crosswalk signals automatic and no-touch 
 
I would like to update you on an action point about which I wrote to you previously — I am in communication 
with the Silicon Valley Bicycle Coalition and the Grand Boulevard Initiative to work with Caltrans to convert the 
pedestrian crosswalk signals along El Camino from 2nd-9th Avenues to be automatic and no touch. I have 
received resistance from Caltrans with a vehicle-centric response. But Caltrans is moving in the direction of 
becoming more pedestrian and bicycle friendly and we are working to reach this first step in initiating the 
vision laid out in the San Mateo Sustainable Streets 2015 plan. Whatever support you can provide is 
appreciated in telling Caltrans that it is a priority for San Mateo to keep our pedestrians and bicyclists safe 
during Covid and all the time. Do you have any contacts at Caltrans to help move this forward?  
 
Our community needs to take meaningful action to keep people safe. Now more people are walking and 
biking, and at the same time cars are going faster because there is less traffic. I’d like to share my support for 
the vision laid out by the Silicon Valley Bicycle Coalition in their recent letter to cities: 
https://bikesiliconvalley.org/2020/07/how-to-create-a-more-sustainable-transportation-future-svbcs-ask-to-
cities/ 
 
STUDY SESSION ITEM #1
58 of 119

--- page 59 ---
As mentioned in the SVBC letter, there is an intersection with city planning and making our community more 
inclusive, equitable, and safer for everyone. Considering technological solutions for curbing traffic violations is 
one step toward a policy change the city can take in reforming policing in our community and is at the 
intersection of traffic policies and policing, “by law, it is almost entirely up to the officer whether to let the 
person go with a warning, give them a ticket, ask to search their vehicle, or escalate the situation even 
further.“ https://www-vice-com.cdn.ampproject.org/c/s/www.vice.com/amp/en_us/article/g5pvgm/we-dont-
need-cops-to-enforce-traffic-laws  
 
I would also like to ask that San Mateo take the following steps to bring immediate change to the Police 
Department as laid out by Campaign Zero #8cantwait. https://8cantwait.org 
 
San Mateo should take action to: 
-Ban Chokeholds and Strangleholds  
-Require De-escalation 
-Require Exhausting All Alternatives Before Shooting 
-Ban Shooting at Moving Vehicles 
-Have Use of Force Continuum 
-Require Comprehensive Reporting 
 
San Mateo already has in place these 2 of the 8:  
-Require Warning Before Shooting 
-Duty to Intervene 
 
Thank you for taking the time to read this letter and for working to create a San Mateo that is inclusive, 
equitable, and, maybe the most important duty of public servants, safe for all.  
 
Sincerely,  
 
Kristie Eglsaer  
 
STUDY SESSION ITEM #1
59 of 119

--- page 60 ---
From: Maureen Galindo < >  
Sent: Sunday, July 19, 2020 3:26 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Council Special Meeting 
 
Dear City Council Members, 
 
I will not be able to join your meeting on Zoom tomorrow evening, however, I would like to 
provide my thoughts on two matters: 
 
Regarding the defunding of the police, this can only lead to dire consequences down the road. 
I hear daily regarding the systemic racism in the police departments.   I do believe there are 
racist police officers out there, but it is far from systemic.  A better way to handle this is with 
better vetting of new officers and also not hiring new officers who have had problems in 
other departments.  I have been very blessed to live in San Mateo for 45 years and have always 
had a very positive experience with the police department any time I have needed them.  
(Fortunately, the times have been few) 
 
My second thought is the resolution to paint "Black Lives Matter" on a street in San Mateo. 
I am not aware of the cost for this action, but I can not understand how this would help the 
black community in any way.  Perhaps another thought would be to donate that funding to 
an organization that actually helps the low income communities in a more positive manner. 
An example of an organization like that would be the "Woodson Foundation".  If you have 
time, look it up on the internet and you will find that it helps families far more than a street 
being painted.  This foundation provides counseling, mentoring and opportunities to the 
communities throughout the United States.  I know that money would be far better spent and you would still 
be doing something positive for the community. 
 
Thank you for your attention to these matters. 
 
Sincerely, 
Maureen Galindo 
 
STUDY SESSION ITEM #1
60 of 119

--- page 61 ---
From: Karen Goff < >  
Sent: Monday, July 20, 2020 10:45 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 7-20-20 Meeting 
 
Dear Council Member,  
 
Please do not defund the SMPD.  I have lived here over 30 years and have found the police to be 
professional and helpful whenever I have had interaction with its members.  The SMPD is a necessity 
in maintaining a peaceful community.  The SMPD contributes to the quality of life here in San Mateo. I 
believe that Black Lives matter and that we should listen to Black Voices, but I don’t believe that 
taking any money away from our police department accomplishes that. 
 
 If the City funds or participates in a BLM mural, will we, as citizens have to fund and participate in 
other causes?  Who decides which causes are worthy of City support? Whether or not it’s true, many 
people see the BLM movement as anti-police. What will it say if the city not only allows, but funds a 
mural? I don’t believe that  funding a BLM mural will help heal this city, but instead be divisive for the 
citizens of San Mateo.  
 
Much, much better use of city money would be to fund more traffic calming measures in the Central 
neighborhood and the rest of the City of San Mateo as well. Better use of city staff, time and money 
would be to come up with safety solutions that have an impact on everyone in this community.  
 
 
Respectfully, 
 
Karen Goff 
San Mateo Resident, 
 
STUDY SESSION ITEM #1
61 of 119

--- page 62 ---
From: Marianne Haas < >  
Sent: Saturday, July 18, 2020 2:53 PM 
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Defunding the police Department 
 
Dear City Clerk, 
I often travel to San Mateo.  I am disabled and depend on police in case I have difficulties.  I am 
vulnerable.  Defunding the Police will increase crime.  People like me would be the first to be victimized.  I am, 
therefore, asking that the Police Department does not get defunded. 
 
Best Regards, 
 
M. Haas 
 
STUDY SESSION ITEM #1
62 of 119

--- page 63 ---
From: Karen < >  
Sent: Friday, July 17, 2020 1:06 PM 
To: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Defunding the Police 
 
 
Another crazy idea from the members of our city council.  What are you thinking?  No common sense is being 
used any more.  WE WANT YOU TO SUPPORT OUR POLICE DEPARTMENT. 
 
We have the best police officers and they are doing a fine job of keeping us safe.  You people      say you have 
the citizens of San Mateo behind this idea.  That is NOT TRUE.  We were just at a virtual meeting of 72 people 
who live in San Mateo .  NO ONE THOUGHT THIS WAS A GOOD IDEA. We won’t be surprised if you start 
hearing from some of them,  All were shocked that our city council wants to defund our police department 
and that they are falling into “the New Normal Rhetoric” spreading across this nation by people who do not 
seem to like America.  
 
We want you to support our police department.  Maybe it is time that we look into  firing our city council 
members along with defunding the city council.  Spending money seems not to be a problem these 
days…except for the police department? 
 
Disappointed with our elected officials in San Mateo, 
 
John and Karen Kennedy 
 
STUDY SESSION ITEM #1
63 of 119

--- page 64 ---
From: Chet Lexvold < >  
Sent: Monday, July 20, 2020 10:50 AM 
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Joe Goethals <jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org>; Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick 
Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan 
<dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Comment before tonight's Study Session on the police budget 
 
Dear Clerk, 
 
First, Eric Rodriguez must recuse himself from decision-making on the police budget. He is on the Police 
Activities League (PAL) Board of Directors, which is an obvious conflict of interest. He already breached public 
trust when he voted in June to spend public money staffing PAL. 
 
Second, the systemic racism and brutality that permeates U.S. policing is present right here in San Mateo. Any 
claim that our city police force is somehow an exception ignores the very definition of the word "systemic." 
 
Further, there is abundant evidence of racism and police brutality in San Mateo and surrounding communities. 
Chinedu Okobi was an unarmed Black man murdered by San Mateo County Sheriffs in 
2018, just 3 miles north of San Mateo. I joined a coalition demanding Justice for Chinedu. Where were the 
"good cops" of San Mateo during that battle? Nowhere to be found. Also nowhere to be found: the San Mateo 
City Council, PAL, and every person in a position of power in our city/county who could have held those killer 
cops accountable. 
 
This is systemic racism at work. Silence from those in a position of power to actually hold police accountable 
or affect change perpetuates systemic racism and police brutality.  
 
Moreoever, "good cops" can't affect change within this broken institution. When they try, they're the ones 
who get rooted out, not the racists. Look at this weekend's story about a cop in Redwood City: "During his 
decade-long career in law enforcement, Ryan Adler said he witnessed racism, homophobia, and excessive 
bullying among his fellow officers in the Redwood City Police Department. But when he decided to speak up, 
he was labeled a rat and a snitch and was eventually forced out of the department." 
 
Finally, here's the San Mateo County Deputy Sheriff's Association, just 6 days ago, 1) sharing a livestream of 
Trump from a white nationalist website, Breitbart, and 2) threatening others in law enforcement if they don't 
support Trump ("It is no longer acceptable to be in law enforcement ... and vote for those who don't support 
you."). 
 
Defund this rotten institution. Invest that money in better institutions. 
 
Thank you, 
Chet Lexvold 
San Mateo 
 
STUDY SESSION ITEM #1
64 of 119

--- page 65 ---
From: Thomas Morgan II < >  
Sent: Thursday, July 16, 2020 7:05 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Special Meeting 
 
I am concerned some may view this meeting incorrectly. I think we are striving for more equality, but having 
this as a special meeting followed by a regular meeting feels like a time constraint is being placed on the issue. 
This could cause people to question the City's commitment for a more equitable and better relationship 
between the Police and the community. 
 
I see the agenda is full, but it is probably better to move this to the regular meeting 
 
Thank you, 
 
Thomas Morgan 
 
STUDY SESSION ITEM #1
65 of 119

--- page 66 ---
From: Emily Morris < >  
Sent: Sunday, July 19, 2020 2:29 PM 
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Public comment for July 20 City Council Special Meeting 
 
I am submitting a public comment ahead of the July 20 City Council Special Meeting: 
 
We've reached a critical inflection point in the fight against racism and police brutality. It is a much-overdue 
time to examine our priorities and decide where economic and political power belong - and it most certainly 
does not belong with the police.  
 
In a time of economic devastation wrought from COVID-19, I am asking this council to divest funding from 
police and channel it into the community where it belongs. People are hurting from this pandemic, and we 
need the city's budget to ensure everyone has access to affordable housing, food to eat, non-punitive mental 
health services and employment opportunities. We need community programs that de-escalate situations and 
are entirely separate and unrelated to the San Mateo Police Department. We need transformative justice that 
is created and run by members of the community, not police. 
 
I am asking this council to shift funding from the armed police toward an unarmed, non-police emergency 
response team that is created by a diverse set of community members.  
 
I am asking this council to eliminate all contracts between schools and the San Mateo Police Department. 
I am asking this council to eliminate all funding to the Police Activities League.  
 
Thank you, 
 
Emily, resident of San Mateo 
 
STUDY SESSION ITEM #1
66 of 119

--- page 67 ---
From: San Mateo United Homeowners Association <sanmateounitedhoa@gmail.com>  
Sent: Sunday, July 19, 2020 4:55 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
Anna Kuhre < > 
Subject: Police Budget Review 
 
Dear City Council Members: 
 
I was reminded by our President Emeritus, Anna Kuhre, that a more typical time to 
review the police budget would be at the next blue sky session at the start of next 
year.  This is where reallocating budget can be properly evaluated.  
 
Regards, 
Mike Nash 
President 
   
 
 
STUDY SESSION ITEM #1
67 of 119

--- page 68 ---
From: Michael O'Connor < >  
Sent: Monday, July 20, 2020 1:22 PM 
To: City Mgr <citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; PR Commission Mailbox 
<PRCommissionMailbox@CityofSanMateoOrg.onmicrosoft.com>; Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Objection to BLM mural on city streets 
 
Good afternoon, 
 
I cannot attend the meeting tonight due to classes, but wish to make my opinion clear. 
 
I am not a resident of San Mateo City, but much of my life has been spent there (high school, renting rooms, 
frequenting malls and stores in the city, friends, etc.).  I reside in San Carlos. 
 
1. 1st Amendment concerns: painting one mural on the city streets requires allowing other murals from other 
viewpoints in equal access, including Make America Great Again and others, which are not trending at this 
time; 
 
2. Safety concerns: painting non-safety related art or political statements creates a safety hazard for motorists, 
and may create an "attractive nuisance"; 
 
3. Wrongful arrest: anyone who skids or defaces the statement may be subject to unlawful arrest, as in 
accidentally skidding on the mural, dropping serving that Mars the mural, or any number of real or perceived 
threats to said mural; 
 
4. Does such a mural match the belief of your constituency???  Have you polled the majority of your 
constituents?  Placed this issue on a ballot? 
 
To carry this further, do not refund the police.  So many believe that police are contributing to problems.  First, 
the data does not support such a position.  Second, police officers not only enforce the law, but they provide 
and direct much needed services to those in need.  Police officers act as law enforcement, diplomats, 
community relations experts, mediators, moderators, and eyes on the ground to address the best and worst 
situations of public and private life. 
 
If you do not believe me, attend the Academy.  Ride along with your officers.  See their lives, their efforts to 
keep this society on track. 
 
Please do not perform a rash act for publicity, for political clout, or to satisfy the current mob's wishes. 
 
Thank you. 
 
Michael O'Connor 
 
STUDY SESSION ITEM #1
68 of 119

--- page 69 ---
From: Kurt Ricci < >  
Sent: Sunday, July 19, 2020 5:07 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Ed Barberini <ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org>; Drew Corbett 
<dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Monday Night's Council Meeting items 
 
Honorable Mayor and Councilmembers, 
 
Regarding the items up for discussion and review at Monday night's Council meeting, I want to 
let you know that I think the reduction in police funding should not be pursued at this critical 
time.  Having lived in San Mateo as a homeowner for the last 24 years, I've come to know 
many of our fine police officers and know they always put the needs of San Mateo and it's 
citizens as their top priority.  If any funding studies should be undertaken at this time of 
concern about police actions, I recommend training be the focus of where to shift or increase 
money spent on our police force.  Additionally, with the continual early release of those in our 
prison system, we will continue to see outside people come to San Mateo to break into our 
houses, break our car windows, wantonly steal from our shopping centers, etc.  We will need 
more police support and a police force trained to deal with these issues. 
 
Also, I fully support the review of traffic control throughout the City.  I understand a mother 
and father will speak early in the meeting about the recent tragic loss of their child to a 
careless driver.  I would like to see this issue of hazardous drivers addressed as well. 
 
Spending time on those types of items, which will make San Mateo an even better city is 
where the focus should be.  This is not the time to be distracted with spending money ad 
resources for pursuing murals that only speak to one part of our overall community. 
 
Thank you, 
Kurt Ricci 
San Mateo Resident and Homeowner. 
 
STUDY SESSION ITEM #1
69 of 119

--- page 70 ---
From: Arnie Rodman < >  
Sent: Monday, July 20, 2020 2:35 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: July 20, 2020 - Council Review of Police Budget and Mayor's Message 
 
We believe that the San Mateo Police Department, with few exceptions is doing a great job and that funding 
for that department should not be reduced. The Citizens of San Mateo have high expectations that Safety & 
Peace in our neighborhoods will continue, as it has in the past.  Defunding and/or any significant Policing 
policy changes, would be contrary to those expectations. 
 
The Mayor’s Message (Joe Goethals) is very concerning, although, not directly referring to the Political 
Movement “BLACK LIVES MATTER”. The stated concepts of “Social Justice” and "Racial Equality”, terms used in 
the Mayor’s Message, without defining exactly what they mean, seems like major talking points of the “BLACK 
LIVES MATTER”, a raciest organization.  
The BLACK LIVES MATTER organization was founded by Marxist individuals and seems to have a goal of tearing 
down this Country by further dividing it. 
We do not believe that the goals of the BLACK LIVES MATTER organization should have any place in the goals 
and policies of The City of San Mateo. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Arnold Rodman 
Deborah Leizgold 
 
Long time residents, property owners & voters in the City of San Mateo 
 
STUDY SESSION ITEM #1
70 of 119

--- page 71 ---
From: Connie Schram < >  
Sent: Saturday, July 18, 2020 5:01 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Against defunding San Mateo Police 
 
Dear San Mateo Council Members,  as a life time resident of San Mateo I want to support our police. My 
husband and I have been very satisfied with the police when ever we have had any contact with them. Having 
the police in our schools is a very positive experience for our children and makes our children more likely to 
seek there assistance if they need it. Both my husband and I are against defunding San Mateo Police or 
altering in any way their budget. Thank you for your consideration. 
Dr. Richard and Mrs. Connie Schram,  
 
STUDY SESSION ITEM #1
71 of 119

--- page 72 ---
From: D Shum < >  
Sent: Monday, July 20, 2020 11:28 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Tonight s Meeting 
 
Dear Council Member  
 
I have lived in San Mateo for over 30 years and have found the police to be respectful and helpful 
whenever I have had interaction with its officers.  Before her retirement Chief Manheimer molded  the 
department into the model of community policing.  I have faith that Chief Barberini will continue to 
lead and develop the SMPD into an organization that others will strive to be.  Please do not derail the 
good work the Department does on a daily basis. Please do not defund their budget , but enhance it 
to add more people to the department to handle Mental Health issues in our Community. 
 
Please do not divide our City over a BLM mural.  If the City sponsors this type of Mural will the City 
need to sponsor other murals for other causes and who will determine what is a good cause.  Save 
the Money , we are going to need it for other programs  as we continue to battle the Covid 19 crisis. 
 
Thank you for your time 
 
 
David Shum 
San Mateo Resident 
 
STUDY SESSION ITEM #1
72 of 119

--- page 73 ---
From: San Mateo United Homeowners Association <sanmateounitedhoa@gmail.com>  
Sent: Sunday, July 19, 2020 3:49 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Drew Corbett 
<dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org>; Ed Barberini <ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Police Department Budget Review 
 
Dear City Council Members: 
 
I am writing on behalf of the Board of the San Mateo United Homeowners Association.   
 
San Mateo has a first rate police department and we are a better City because of 
it.  However, we are concerned that the "Defund the Police" thinking is working against 
this as the City Council has asked for a study session on the Police Budget.  
 
It is interesting that this review was announced at the end of a lengthy discussion on 
ethics, diversity and inclusion by the Mayor which included a second announcement 
about a new effort by City Staff to find ways to make sure all City departments are doing 
as best as possible in these areas.  Oddly, the last comment in the mayor's remarks is a 
call to review the Police Budget. Calling for this review seems incongruous after the 
discussion on social issues.  If we have budget issues, why limit this review to the 
Police?  How does the police budget relate to the mayor's remarks on 
ethics, diversity and inclusion? 
 
SMUHA had a zoom meeting with the Chief of Police last month.   The conversation 
covered many topics but the neighborhoods emphasized how thankful they were for our 
Police.  The recent protest march was discussed and the fact that these were orderly 
with no arrests or injuries despite the presence of groups of outsiders who were intent 
on significant mischief at the mall, in the San Mateo Village, on Highway 101 and at the 
Police Station. None of this happened because our Police did their job so well.  I heard 
that the police were given an A+ rating by a City Official.  It was deserved.  The 
neighborhoods support the police as they are.  While anything can be improved it is 
imperative that any decisions be made with the understanding that a change must make 
things better.  Cutting a tight budget is unlikely to do that. We need more officers on the 
street as it is.  
 
The police are human too. With the national press focussing on what is bad about 
other police departments, our staff's morale is impacted.  We should be doing all we can 
to support the fine force we now have and not taking actions to make their job harder.  
 
Best Regards, 
 
Mike Nash 
President 
 
 
STUDY SESSION ITEM #1
73 of 119

--- page 74 ---
From: CHRISTINE Y Stiles < >  
Sent: Monday, July 20, 2020 2:06 PM 
To: Joe Goethals <jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org>; Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick 
Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan <dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee 
<alee@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; San Mateo Police Department 
<police@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Police Dept. Budget, Please do NOT reduce 
 
Dear City Council - 
 
We appreciate the job the police department does in San Mateo.  PLEASE do NOT reduce 
their budget. 
 
To our City Council and the Police Dept, Thank You each for what you do on behalf of 
residents of our City. 
 
Best regards, 
Christine and Peter Stiles 
San Mateo 
 
STUDY SESSION ITEM #1
74 of 119

--- page 75 ---
From: Helen Tong-Ishikawa < >  
Sent: Sunday, July 19, 2020 10:30 PM 
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rick Bonilla <RBonilla@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee 
<alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Joe Goethals <jgoethals@cityofsanmateo.org>; Diane Papan 
<dpapan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Eric Rodriguez <erodriguez@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Request to Reduce Police Budget 
 
To the members of the San Mateo City Council, 
  
Thank you for making time to revisit the SMPD budget and use of force policies with the community at 
the July 20th Study Session.  As many of you know, police forces disproportionately affect specific 
communities. Black people are 2.5 times more likely to be killed by police than white people. 
Indigenous people and Latinx men are also more likely to be killed by police than white people. Black 
and brown people are also subject to more stops and arrests. The LGBTQ+ community and those 
experiencing homelessness are also more likely to be victimized by police forces. People with mental 
illness are 16 times more likely to be killed by police. 
  
Increased policing and incarceration do not meaningfully reduce crime in our communities. Studies 
have shown that better healthcare, housing, jobs, and youth programs decrease crime at a much 
higher rate than policing. Our city should be prioritizing the programs that improve quality of life for 
communities that have been disproportionately affected by the police. Police officers are called to do 
too much and are given the authority to use force in many situations where it is not necessary. Those 
calls should be diverted to specialized teams that address those experiencing mental health issues, 
substance abuse issues, housing instability, and noise complaints, just to name a few.  
  
Too much money is being spent on policing in our city compared to other departments. I am appalled 
that 35% of our budget is going to the police department, while only 1% is going towards community 
development (i.e. building more affordable homes during this housing crisis). In light of the 
devastating effects of the pandemic, the current $7.8MM General Fund budget deficit, the anticipated 
economic recession, I am urging that the members of the City Council take action to decrease the 
police budget and reinvest in the following programs: 
  
1.     Grants for struggling small local San Mateo businesses  
2.     Emergency rental assistance for low-income San Mateo residents  
3.     Subsidized childcare for low-income San Mateo residents  
4.     Non-profits that provide services to our most vulnerable populations like seniors, 
homeless individuals or people with disabilities, low-income communities of color. 
5.     Building of more affordable housing 
  
Will you commit to publicly fighting for decreasing the police budget and reinvesting that money into 
programs that improve quality of life for struggling San Mateo residents? We are counting on you to 
represent your constituents and to use your political power for change. 
  
Thank you, 
  
Helen Tong-Ishikawa 
 
STUDY SESSION ITEM #1
75 of 119

--- page 76 ---
From: Gary < >  
Sent: Sunday, July 19, 2020 1:58 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Police Defunding  
 
I feel this is neither needed or a good idea with regards to our City.  
 
If anything additional training should be a consideration, not cost cutting regarding our PD. 
 
Gary Vielbaum, San Mateo resident. 
 
STUDY SESSION ITEM #1
76 of 119

--- page 77 ---
From: Jeffrey Wang < > 
Sent: Friday, July 17, 2020 10:47 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Funding of our Police Department  
  
I read today a great article in the NY Times Opinion section by David Hughes, the chief of 
professional standards at the Newport News, VA, Sheriff's Office.  He said "So yes, defund the 
police.  But then refund them better.  Hire people with a college degree.  Pay them more.  Reform 
police academies to include education on psychology, cultural sensitivity, communication skills and 
de-escalation.  Hold people to account". 
 
I know San Mateo police are better paid than many.  I'm not aware of their training but wouldn't be 
surprised if better training costs more.  So let's talk about funding the police.  As a 35 year resident of 
San Mateo, I would be leery of any effort to cut the department budget keeping in mind the things that 
need to be done better. 
 
Jeff Wang 
 
STUDY SESSION ITEM #1
77 of 119

--- page 78 ---
From: Abigail Amit < >  
Sent: Monday, July 20, 2020 2:55 PM 
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Comment 
 
In the county's recommended FY 2020-21 operating budget, $280M is allocated to the Sheriff's 
Office, up from $276M+ in the FY 2019-20 budget. This is despite a projected $65-100M deficit 
in the proposed budget from COVID19. There is not just a need for police and sheriff reform, 
but police defunding and abolition: the entire structure of the sheriff and police force is 
inherently corrupt and ineffective. 
Anti-Black police violence is not simply an abstract phenomenon happening in larger cities miles 
away. It is happening right in our backyard. In October 2018, a 36-year-old man in Millbrae 
named Chinedu Okobi, a Morehouse alumn actively treating his mental illness, was Tased to 
death by San Mateo County officers, who stopped him for alleged jaywalking across El Camino 
Real. San Mateo County District Attorney Steve Wagstaffe determined that the deputies’ use of 
force, using batons and pepper spray in addition to multiple Taser deployments on a distressed 
unarmed man, was reasonable. Chinedu Okobi should be alive right now. At the very most, he 
should be in a hospital receiving mental health treatment. By now, he likely would’ve been 
released back to the care of his family. We say his name along with others killed by SMC police, 
among them 34-year-old Warren Ragudo and 55-year-old Raamzi Saad.  
The average police recruit spends 58 hours learning how to shoot and only 8 hours learning 
how to de-escalate (Source: Campaign Zero). They are not trained or equipped to react to the 
vast majority of crises. Phillip McHarris (doctoral candidate focusing on race), argues that we 
must work towards a reality in which healthcare workers and emergency response teams 
handle substance abuse, domestic violence, homelessness, or mental health cases. Policies to 
“improve the police” are not enough, as there’s no evidence that implicit bias training or 
community relations initiatives help with reducing the abuses of policing (The Nation). We need 
to reimagine public safety to prioritize alternatives to conflict rather than defaulting to 
violence. 
I demand that the County Supervisors begin meaningfully defunding the San Mateo County 
Sheriff's Office and Sheriff’s Activities League (SAL), reallocating those funds to programs 
proven to more effectively promote a safe and equitable community: community-based mental 
health services, substance abuse treatment services, affordable housing programs, and more. I 
demand a budget that reflects the actual needs of San Mateo County residents. Propose and 
vote to expand on its current efforts in healthcare, affordable housing, and restorative justice. 
It is your duty to represent your constituents. I am urging you to revise the San Mateo County 
budget for the next fiscal year.  
Abigail Amit 
 
STUDY SESSION Additional Public Comment 
78 of 119

--- page 79 ---
From: gabriella beng >  
Sent: Monday, July 20, 2020 2:50 PM 
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Erin Fellers <efellers@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: AGENDA NO. 1 POLICE DEPARTMENT BUDGET AND POLICY DISCUSSION 
 
Council Members, 
There is a direct correlation between crime and the number of police officers employed in the 
community. More police crime tends to diminish. Please don’t defund the police we need 
strong law and order this is what it makes this country safe and healthy for all of us.  Of course 
good training and  knowledge of their community  and its  surrounding  areas are also very 
important for good policing. 
Thank you for protecting our community  
Carmen G. Bengtsson  
 
STUDY SESSION Additional Public Comment 
79 of 119

--- page 80 ---
From: Catherine Hart < >  
Sent: Monday, July 20, 2020 3:04 PM 
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: No Police Defund/Weaken/reimagine/Let criminals out in streets too early 
 
You get the point. My family has been here for many decades and San Mateo has never had a 
police brutality issue. We have friends and relatives who are local police. The training is 
extensive compared to other states. Law and Order should be a town's first priority to ensure a 
joyful living experience.  
 
If we do not have the Rule of Law we have no community. Portland and Seattle are war zones 
due to failed leaders still insisting Marxist tactics will bring some sort of utopia in the end. NY's 
crime rate is very high and rising.  
 
No sane person wants reduced law enforcement. Also, an officer needs every tool at his 
disposal if he finds himself in a life or death situation. 
 
San Mateo should be very proud of its diverse, beautiful and safe city! 
 
Catherine Hart 
 
STUDY SESSION Additional Public Comment 
80 of 119

--- page 81 ---
From: Cheryl Kozanitas < >  
Sent: Monday, July 20, 2020 4:36 PM 
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Comment 
 
Are any of San Mateo's police receiving any training in Israel? Many police departments in the 
U.S. send personnel for such training. They receive training from an occupying force in the 
Palestinian territories.  They learn the brutal practices and torture techniques used on an 
occupied, captive people. I do not want such a police force in San Mateo. If San Mateo police 
are participating in the program, it should be immediately halted. 
Thank you, 
Cheryl Kozanitas 
 
STUDY SESSION Additional Public Comment 
81 of 119

--- page 82 ---
From: Leo & Phyllis Larsen < >  
Sent: Monday, July 20, 2020 4:22 PM 
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: De-fund the Police? 
 
I vote NO!! This puts our lives at risk. I'm tired of seeing Police abused by   
extremist groups. I don't want to see San Mateo turn into something we   
won't be able to recognize in the future.   
Leo Larsen  
Foster City Ca.  
 
STUDY SESSION Additional Public Comment 
82 of 119

--- page 83 ---
From: Jim Learned < >  
Sent: Monday, July 20, 2020 4:01 PM 
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Do not defund the police! 
 
Do not defund the police or any public safety office!  
During these times the only thing needed is increased monitoring of demonstrations so that the 
agitators can be identified and riots prevented. 
There is no right to riot. 
A new law is needed: a permit to assemble a demonstration which would require 
liability insurance in case the event does turn violent. This last event, which was peaceful, still 
cost local businesses many thousands to erect plywood storefront protection. 
And maybe this mayor could be censured for acting emotionally against the common good. 
 
 
STUDY SESSION Additional Public Comment 
83 of 119

--- page 84 ---
From: Lisa Nash < >  
Sent: Monday, July 20, 2020 2:39 PM 
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Comments on the July 20 City Council Study Session on the San Mateo Police Budget 
 
To the Members of the San Mateo City Council, 
 
I want to salute Chief of Police Barberini and his entire team for their long-standing commitment to 
community policing and honest efforts to listen to the community and improve.  This is not easy work, but it is 
so important. 
  
We should continually evaluate how we do things, not just when there is a crisis, and we should evaluate all 
areas of San Mateo government and civic life.  With regard to the Police, we should establish a new citizen’s 
commission to learn and recommend process improvements.  This group should work with the Police, as well 
as go out to the community to get input from community leaders and underrepresented members of our 
community.  Once tested, this citizen’s commission model could be applied to other areas of government 
process.   
  
I recommend asking police officers and the people they have interacted with what they think they need to 
strengthen our community.  They will have very specific suggestions based on their experiences that we can 
act on.   
  
By way of full disclosure, I am on the San Mateo Neighborhood Watch Board.  I have heard many officers say 
that they wish their social work and psychiatric health professional colleagues had more resources available, 
so they weren’t so tapped out.  And I have heard from people whose loved ones suffer from dementia that 
they need mental health support, not a forcible solution.  These are actionable, positive recommendations we 
should invest in, not in defunding the police. 
  
Finally, we need to widen our focus.  We should take a hard look at the long-standing economic and social 
reasons for systemic racism in all areas of our community.  We need to create new paths to economic and 
social advancement and invest in them, not just talk about them.   
  
I applaud the efforts that City Manager Drew Corbett and his team have begun to evaluate what can be done 
to strengthen diversity, equity and inclusion in all aspects of San Mateo government.  This must be a priority of 
the City Council, the City staff and every resident and local business in San Mateo.  This is work that should 
never stop.  
  
Sincerely, 
 
Lisa Diaz Nash 
  
 
--  
Lisa Diaz Nash 
Candidate, San Mateo City Council 2020  
STUDY SESSION Additional Public Comment 
84 of 119

--- page 85 ---
From: Laurie Parle < >  
Sent: Monday, July 20, 2020 4:00 PM 
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: URGENT! 5PM & 7PM CITY COUNCIL MEETING MEMBERS PLS: VOTE NO!!! 
 
Hi City of San Mateo  
 
Please reply info below is presented to help guide the City Council's vote. 
 
Pls vote NO  
 
5pm DO NOT DEFUND POLICE * 
 
7pm Item 29. BLM Mural 
DO NOT ALLOW DISHONEST "BLM" BLACK LIVES MATTER ORGANIZATION RUIN SAN 
MATEO. ** 
 
Valid Educational Info below. 
 
* What? "Defund Police" 🔹 Want to See What Happens When You Defund the Police? Here's the Tragic, Deadly Impact 
https://www1.cbn.com/cbnnews/us/2020/june/want-to-see-what-happens-when-you-defund-the-police-heres-the-
devastating-and-deadly-impact Defund the Police? Here's the Tragic, Deadly Impact 🔹 The problems with defunding 
the policeIf the intent is to diminish the capacity and presence of law enforcement, the result will be police responding 
to crime after it occurs rather than preventing crime https://www.policeone.com/community-policing/articles/the-
problems-with-defunding-the-police-I9WamGx5W34asSJi 🔹 Reforming law enforcement starts with law enforcement 
https://www.policeone.com/police-training/articles/reforming-law-enforcement-starts-with-law-enforcement-
jmYOsGwcpFiuMEPi 🔹 Ex-Police Officer: Policing Myths, George Floyd & Riots | Brandon Tatum | POLITICS | Rubin 
Report https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KLqS6Wp0HzQ ** "BLACK LIVES MATTER" (BLM) This News site has info 
on BLM 🔹https://blackcommunitynews.com/the-real-power-and-purpose-behind-black-lives-matter-movement 
🔸Another Perspective BLM Black Live Matter Antifa Movement Connection ISLAM Muslim Brotherhood & Hamas 
Terrorists WAKE UP 🔹https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FrlJUu_EMS8 🔹 Ex-Police Officer: Policing Myths, George 
Floyd & Riots | Brandon Tatum | POLITICS | Rubin Report https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KLqS6Wp0HzQ   
 
VOTE NO both items. 
 
Thank You, 
 
Registered Voter 
Laurie  
STUDY SESSION Additional Public Comment 
85 of 119

--- page 86 ---
San Mateo Police 
Department Budget & Policy
City Council Study Session
July 20, 2020
86 of 119

--- page 87 ---
Police Department Snapshot
• Provides comprehensive police 
services 24/7/365
• Comprised of three service 
units:
• Field Operations
• Support Services
• Investigations/Youth Services
• 115 authorized sworn positions
• 45.75 civilian personnel (merit)
87 of 119

--- page 88 ---
Police Department TOTAL Budget
2020 Adopted
2021 Adopted
Increase    
(Decrease)
% Change
Personnel
$40.63M
$42.93M
$2.3M 
5.6%
Operating Costs
$6.81M
$6.85M
$39k 
0.6%
Capital Outlay
$511k
$482k
($29k)
-5.8%
TOTAL
$47.9M
$50.2M
$2.3M 
4.8%
88 of 119

--- page 89 ---
Sources of Police Department Funding
Funding
$
%
General Fund (includes Measure S)
$47.4M
94%
Downtown Parking & Security Fund
$2.3M
5%
Police Grants
$580k
1%
TOTAL
$50.2M
89 of 119

--- page 90 ---
33%
31%
34%
35%
34%
34%
106 
111 
109 
108 
116 
115 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
 FY1996
 FY2001
 FY2006
 FY2011
 FY2016
 FY2021
25 Year Trend - Police Share of GF Budget and FTEs
 Police %
Total GF
 Sworn FTEs
SM Population 2020 – 104,893
SM Population 1996 – 90,285
90 of 119

--- page 91 ---
Agency
General Fund 
Budget
Police Dept. 
Budget
% of Total Budget
Daly City
$90M
$37M
41%
Redwood City
$143M
$49M
34%
San Mateo
$137M
$47M
34%
Mountain View
$144M
$45M
31%
Police 
Department 
Percent of
of GF Budget
Countywide 
Average = 36%
91 of 119

--- page 92 ---
Personnel 
88%
Operating 11%
Capital Outlay 
1%
2021 
Adopted
Personnel
$41.7M
Operating Costs
$5.3M
Capital Outlay
$459k
TOTAL
$47.4M
FY 2021 General Fund Budget Allocation
92 of 119

--- page 93 ---
GF Operating Expenses - $5,268,622
PAL 
5%
Operations
$278,412
Donation
$20,000
TOTAL
$298,412
Contractual Obligations 
and Mandated Costs 
74%
Citywide and Facility 
Maintenance Related Costs
$1,460,362
San Mateo County
$1,284,497
Contracts Related to 
Operation/ Maintenance of 
Essential Equipment 
$472,000
Community Service and Social 
Service Contracts 
$419,447
Axon – BWC and Taser 
Contract 
$261,000
TOTAL
$3,897,309
Essential Operating Costs 
16%
Required Training
$340,000
Police Supplies/Clothing/ 
Uniform/Safety Equip. 
$272,000
Annual Subscriptions to Software 
Programs Essential to Operations 
$133,000
Background Investigations, Psych 
Evals, PolyGraph, Fingerprinting
$55,000
Legal, Medical, and Polygraph 
Exams; Composite Sketches, Cell 
Phone Engine Searches
$18,000
TOTAL
$818,000
General Operating 
Expenses  5%
•
General Office Expenses –
supplies, mileage, postage
•
Computer Hardware/ 
Software Acquisition
•
Recruitment/Advertising
•
Misc. Departmental 
Expenses, Meals, Awards, 
Promotional Giveaways, 
etc.
TOTAL
$254,901
93 of 119

--- page 94 ---
General Fund Personnel Costs $41.7M
2017 Actuals
2018 Actuals
2019 Actuals 
2020 YEE
2021 Adopted
Overtime
$     2.3M
$  2.6M 
$  3.1M
$   3.3M
$  2.0M 
$39.7M
$2.0M
Sal & Ben (95%)
Overtime (5%)
94 of 119

--- page 95 ---
40%
24%
14%
9%
9%
3%
1%
FY 19/20 Overtime Breakdown
Minimum Staffing
Operational Overtime
Training
Investigations
Reimbursable
Court
Youth Services SRO
and PAL
95 of 119

--- page 96 ---
Summary of Vehicles and Major Equipment
Description
Qty
Funding Source
Police Vehicles 
4 with ALPR
75
General Fund (73)/Grant funded (2)
Police Motorcycles
8
General Fund (7) /Asset Forfeiture (1)
PAL Vehicles/Trailers
6/3
6 vehicles/3 trailers.  General Fund (reimbursed by PAL)
Radar/Message Boards and Trailers
2 with ALPR
8
General Fund
Parking Enforcement Vehicles
8
Parking Fund.   7 Go-4s and 1 pickup.  
Mobile Command Center RV
1
General Fund
Mobile Tactical Operations Command Center
1
Grant funded asset of the County
Tactical Rescue Vehicle
1
Grant funded asset of the County
Unmarked Investigations Van
1
Van is City vehicle which reached the end of its useful life.  
Equipment funded by Byrne/JAG Grant. 
Belvedere - Classic Police Vehicle
1
Maintenance funded by donations 
96 of 119

--- page 97 ---
FIELD OPERATIONS – “The Backbone of SMPD”
• 1 Captain
• 3 Lieutenants
• 13 Sergeants
• 75 Police Officers
• 5 Community Service Officers
• 1 Admin Asst.
• 1 Traffic Enf. Coord.
• 2 Abandoned Vehicle Officers
• PATROL SERVICES – Primary Response to Calls
- Field Training Program
• TRAFFIC BUREAU
• Motorcycles
• Traffic Action Planning
• Parking Enforcement Liaison
• DOWNTOWN UNIT
• Homeless Outreach
• Mental Health Crisis Outreach
• CRIME REDUCTION UNIT
• Focused on Crime Trends, Gangs, Street 
Crime
• PARKING ENFORCEMENT
Total FTEs
101.00
Total Personnel Budget
$27.7M
97 of 119

--- page 98 ---
7 am
9 am
11 am
1 pm
3 pm
5 pm
7 pm
9 pm
11 pm
1 am
3 am
5 am
DAYSHIFT - WATCH I  (7 OFFICERS AUTHORIZED)
MID-DAY - WATCH II  (7 OFFICERS AUTHORIZED)
SWING-SHIFT - WATCH III (8 OFFICERS AUTHORIZED)
NIGHT-SHIFT - WATCH IV (7 OFFICERS AUTHORIZED)
MINIMUM STAFFING - 5 OFFICERS
MINIMUM STAFFING - 9 OFFICERS
MINIMUM STAFFING - 15 OFFICERS
MINIMUM STAFFING - 11 OFFICERS
MINIMUM STAFFING - 6 OFFICERS
A DAY IN PATROL – STAFFING BY SHIFT
7a-10a – Watch I – 5 Officers Minimum
10a-2p – Watches I&II – 9 Officers Minimum
2p–10p – Watches II&III – 15 Officers Minimum
10p-2a – Watches III&IV – 11 Officers Minimum
2a-7a – Watch IV – 6 Officers Minimum
Over a 24-Hour 
Period, this is the 
minimum number of 
Patrol Officers on San 
Mateo Streets 
This is our full-authorized Patrol 
staffing, not counting vacancies or 
absences due to vacation or training. 
Shortages in minimum 
staffing are covered by 
Overtime, through extended 
shifts or recall from days-off
98 of 119

--- page 99 ---
INVESTIGATIONS – DETECTIVE BUREAU
• 1 Lieutenant
• 2 Sergeants
• 8 Detectives
• 1 Community Service 
Officer
• 1 Evidence Analyst
• 1 Admin Assistant 
• Investigation of major / complex crimes and 
serial / trending crimes
• Investigation and follow-up to all high-profile 
and sexually-based crimes
• Oversight and monitoring of Registered Sex 
Offenders
• Digital forensics (computers, electronics) 
• Follow-up on all missing persons cases
FTEs
14.00
Total Personnel Budget
$4.1M
99 of 119

--- page 100 ---
YOUTH SERVICES
• 1 Sergeant
• 1 Detective
• 1 Police Activities League (PAL) Officer
• 3 School Resource Officers (SRO)
• Youth diversion programs (evidence-based, 
highly effective)
• 3 SROs connect with youth, identify 
vulnerable students, refer to services and 
connect directly to counseling
• Serving each public high school and its 
feeder middle school
• Evidence-based prevention and early 
intervention program (GREAT) taught to 
all San Mateo Public Sixth Graders
• Funded through 3-way partnership 
(SMUHSD, SMFCSD, and SMPD)
PAL is directly connected to the Youth Services 
program for identified youth, and this 
relationship allows us to connect families to 
needed services
In-house partnerships -
• Dedicated SM County Probation Officer 
provided to SMPD’s team for direct 
intervention and diversion of youth from the 
justice system
• Bilingual Counseling Services provided directly 
through the program
FTEs
6.00
Total Personnel Budget
$1.7M
100 of 119

--- page 101 ---
DISPATCH / RECORDS / PROPERTY
1  Police Records and Communications Manager  
Dispatch
• 1 Dispatch Supervisor
• 2 Senior Dispatchers
• 13 Dispatchers
• Answering over 170,000 phone calls
• Dispatching 65,000 to 67,000 calls for 
• Patrol response
• Handling 25,000 to 28,000 officer-initiated 
incidents 
Records / Property 
• 1 Records Supervisor
• 3 Senior Records Specialists (includes Court Officer)
• 6 Police Records Specialists - Evidence 
• 1 Analyst – Body Worn Camera (BWC)
• Front counter presence - customer service 
point-of-contact for daily business services of 
SMPD
• Processing of Public Records Act requests (PRAs)
• Over 8000 police reports generated
• Over 750 Civil Subpoenas and 200 Restraining 
Orders processed 
• 20,000 pieces of evidence booked in every year
• Preparation of over 2200 cases for prosecution
Total FTEs
27.00
Total Personnel Budget
$4.8M
101 of 119

--- page 102 ---
SUPPORT SERVICES
Training/Policy
• 1 Lieutenant
• 1 Sergeant
• 1 Officer
• Recruiting, hiring, and training new personnel
• Specialized and update training of all personnel
• Policy management
• Internal affairs
Admin Staff
• 1 Business Manager
• 1 Facilities Coordinator
• 1 Sr. Business Systems Analyst 
• 1 Admin Tech
• 1 Executive Assistant
• .75 Admin Assistant
• Budget and business services
• Oversight of all contracts and any items 
needing council approval
• Payroll and management for 170 + PD 
employees
• Facility management of PD Facility
Media Relations 
• 1 Officer
• 1 Community Relations Coordinator
• Community messaging – day-to-day info, breaking 
cases, proactive community safety information and 
emergency messaging 
• Monitoring community needs, media reports and 
concerns regarding public safety issues
Total FTEs
12.75
Total Personnel Budget
$3.7M
1 Chief of Police 
1 Captain
102 of 119

--- page 103 ---
Performance Metrics
2016-17 
RESULTS
2017-18
RESULTS
2018-19 
RESULTS
2019-20 
RESULTS
Pedestrian or bicycle collisions with motor vehicles 
86
73 
106
76
Drunk driving arrests
245
187
121
154
Number of Traffic Action Plans
50
48
48
46
Survey respondents indicating service received was good or excellent
96%
93%
98%
91%
Reported incidents of Violent Crime
537 
667 
702
605
Reported incidents of Property Crime
2,129 
2,200 
2,163 
2,305 
Officer-initiated incidents
24,369 
28,658 
25,807 
26,091 
SMPD calls for service
62,106 
65,125 
67,606 
63,717 
Juveniles diverted from the Court System to the YSB
15
23 
25
18
Number of youth participating in PAL prevention/intervention programs
2,516
4,484 
3,490
2,656
Average response time from dispatch of a Priority 1 call to arrival of 
responding officer
5 min; 54 sec
5 min; 41 sec
5 min; 51 sec
5 min; 19 sec
Answering time
99% answered 
w/in 15 seconds
99% answered 
w/in 15 seconds
99% answered 
w/in 15 seconds
99% answered 
w/in 15 seconds
Number of Priority 1 calls
1,029 
1,286 
1,381 
1,536 
Percent of Priority 1 calls dispatched within 90 seconds of receipt
90%
90%
93%
93%
Referrals to service by Homeless Outreach Team
-
-
42
49
Abandoned Vehicle Complaints Abated
-
-
4,266
3,133
103 of 119

--- page 104 ---
SMPD Referrals to CORA                               
Community Overcoming Relationship Abuse - $19k
January –
March
April –
June
July –
September
October –
December
TOTAL
2018
61
51
49
59
220
2019
58
29
24
40
151
2020
46
42
--
-- 88 (YTD)
176 (YEE)
104 of 119

--- page 105 ---
Number of Homeless Outreach Cases
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
TOTAL
FY 2018-2019
8
7
9
18
42
FY 2019-2020
8
6
11
24
49
105 of 119

--- page 106 ---
SMART – AMR’s Mental Health Response Team 
• County Contract
• 1 SMART Unit on duty 24 hours 
• Requested by SMPD as an option for nonviolent, cooperative 
patients needing mental health attention 
• Actual responses:
• 2017
84 Responses
• 2018
74 Responses
• 2019
55 Responses
• 2020 (YTD) 
28 Responses (Year End Est. 56)
106 of 119

--- page 107 ---
Star Vista – First Chance – $158k
Subjects dropped off at First Chance as an  alternative to Jail for incidents 
involving drug and/or/alcohol influence:
Year
Individuals Connected 
to First Chance                   
in Lieu of County Jail
2017
263
2018
270
2019
250
2020 
(Jan-Jun)
164
SMPD consistently leads all agencies 
locally utilizing this resource 
Services Offered Through First 
Chance (Star Vista)
• AOD (alcohol / drug) treatment
• Medical assessment / referral
• Family-based services
• Housing / homeless services
• Therapy / counseling services
• Psychiatric assessment / referral
• Legal support
107 of 119

--- page 108 ---
Youth Engagement, Diversion, and                 
Family Connection
• Diversion Program
• Partnership with County Probation
• Bilingual Case Management for juveniles and their families
• Youths Diverted from Jail
• 2017-18
23
• 2018-19
25
• 2019-20
18 (COVID)
• School Resource Officers
• 5-6 School Attendance Review Board (SARBs) per year monitoring about 20 students
• Monthly CARES Meetings assessing student behavior performance
• CARES – Cooperation, Acceptance of Others, Respect, Eagerness to Learn, Safety 
• Youth Learning GREAT
• 550 hours of teaching by SROs annually
• Every public 6th grade class (800-900 students per year) 
• As of San Mateo Public High School Class of 2019, all graduating high schoolers are GREAT kids
108 of 119

--- page 109 ---
Prevention / Intervention through GREAT
Total 
Cases
Sent 
for 
Action
% Total Cases 
for Action
Diversion 
(School Generated)
2012/13
52
26
50%
0
2013/14
43
12
28%
4
2014/15
38
9
24%
1
2015/16
39
11
28%
0
2016/17
39
8
21%
3
2017/18
56
8
14%
6
2018/19
50
6
12%
5
2019/20
30
0
0%
4
BLUE BAR – Documented SRO 
contacts with students
ORANGE BAR – Number of 
documented cases sent for 
prosecution
GOLD BAR – Middle School Cases 
identified for Diversion
GREEN LINE – Percentage of 
middle school contacts sent for 
prosecution
109 of 119

--- page 110 ---
Police Activities League 
SMPAL
PAL kids served
2017-18
4484
2018-19
3490
2019-20
2656 (COVID)
PAL families served   
10-12 Santa cop (annually)
200 – Santa brunch (annually)
1800 pantry boxes delivered to 
assist families during COVID 
From PAL 2018-19
Annual Report
110 of 119

--- page 111 ---
16-17
17-18
18-19
19-20
Total Calls
171,848
173,475
177,406
172,862
Total 911 Calls
25,397
27,148
28,744
31,269
Total cases 
8,764
8,330
8,289
8,159
Total arrests
2,740
2,298
2,229
2,227
Domestic Violence Cases/DV 
restraining order violations
76/59
109/42
102/34
89/29
DUIs
237
82
136
149
Keller Referrals
-
-
61
34
Calls for Service and Cases
111 of 119

--- page 112 ---
Dispatch Generated
18-19
19-20
Civil/Criminal Subpoenas
569
769
Restraining Order Violation
195
225
City Ordinance
488
332
Homeless
614
534
Initiated by Child Protective Services
56
23
Initiated by Adult Protective Services/Elder Abuse
52
82
Civil Matters
696
649
Total Disturbance Calls
4082
4040
Total Assaults
212
156
Welfare Checks – Mental Health, Adult/Child Protective
2673
2688
Burglary (Break-ins)
875
997
Thefts (from unlocked locations, shoplifts, etc.)
1136
1203
Total Collisions (injury & reported non-injury)
2221
2346
Suspicious Person
1687
1639
Suspicious Vehicle
872
803
Suspicious Circumstances
1252
1148
Summary of 
Types of Police 
Service Calls
• SMPD has specific direction in place 
that there must be an articulable 
reason to make contact on 
“suspicious” calls
• not “looks suspicious” or “looks like 
they don’t belong 
112 of 119

--- page 113 ---
Preventative Efforts vs. Response to Dispatched Calls
62%
62%
58%
62%
38%
38%
42%
38%
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
2019-2020
2018-2019
2017-2018
2016-2017
2016-2020
Officer Initiated % Total Calls
Dispatched % Total Calls
113 of 119

--- page 114 ---
Officer : Resident Ratio
City
Sworn Police
Population (2019)
Ratio per 1000 pop
Menlo Park
48
34700
1.38
Palo Alto 
91
65400
1.39
South SF
83
67800
1.22
San Bruno
49
42800
1.14
Redwood City
97
86000
1.12
Mountain View
93
82700
1.12
San Mateo
115
104400
1.10
Daly City
101
106000
0.94
Larger Peninsula Cities
Average 1.18
Current Budgeted Sworn Officers (2020) and City 
Populations (2019) – Officer Ratio per 1000
Reference Point: The 2008 
San Mateo Corridor Plan and 
Bay Meadows Specific Plan 
Amendment EIR based police 
staffing requirements on a 
minimum of 1.25 police 
officers per 1000 population.
114 of 119

--- page 115 ---
Maintained through Lexipol.com 
• Industry leading policy manual company for first responders and local government
Highlights
• 10 Chapters
• 159 Policies
• 727 Pages
• Available online (https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4333/Policy-and-Oversight)
Focus for this Study Session will be on operational policies
• Primarily on the Use of Force Policy (Policy #300)
SMPD Policy Manual
115 of 119

--- page 116 ---
SMPD Use of Force Policy
Reflects industry best practices and the Department’s commitment to:
• Recognizing the value of all human life
• Requiring De-Escalation practices
• A Use of Force Continuum – Officers should consider all force options and choose the most appropriate
• A Duty to Intercede for employees if unreasonable force used
• Prohibiting the Carotid Restraint Control Hold
• Shooting at/from moving vehicles
• Requiring verbal warning, when feasible, before using deadly force
• Requiring Reporting of Force and Supervisor Notification
• Establishes a review process of all incidents involving Use of Force for policy compliance determination
116 of 119

--- page 117 ---
73
87
58
55
60812
61574
67976
68129
2016
2017
2018
2019
Use of Force Cases
Total Calls for Service
Force is defined by SMPD Policy 300 as the application of physical techniques or tactics, chemical agents, or weapons to another
Use of Force vs. Total Calls for Service 
117 of 119

--- page 118 ---
2019 Use of Force Cases – by  Type
Use of Force by Type - 2019
Firearm
K9
Pepper Spray
Taser
Physical Control
68,129 Calls for Service:
• Physical Control – 43
• Taser                    – 7
• Pepper Spray      – 2
• K9 Bite                 – 2
• Firearm                – 1
118 of 119

--- page 119 ---
THE END
Questions?
119 of 119