--- page 1 ---
Coralville removes Flock cameras after
council votes to end contract
By Lacey Reeves
Published: Feb. 25, 2026 at 4:02 PM CST

Watch Live
Watch Live
Streaming Studio
Streaming Studio
News
News
Weather
Weather
Video
Video
Sports
Sports

ADVERTISEMENT
Share
Add Us
On Google
CORALVILLE, Iowa (KCRG) - The city of Coralville removed its Flock license plate reader
cameras Wednesday morning, one day after the city council voted to terminate its contract with
the surveillance company.


--- page 2 ---
The council originally approved the Flock cameras in September with a stipulation that they would
not be used to help find undocumented immigrants. Coralville Police Chief Kyle Nicholson said at
the time that the department would not cooperate with federal immigration requests unless
presented with a subpoena.
“Flock will not be used on the sole basis to enforce immigration law. So if ICE is requesting
access to our data, it’s a no,” Chief Nicholson said.
In December, the Iowa Attorney General’s Office sent a letter to the city stating its Flock camera
policy was in violation of Iowa law. That law prohibits local entities from impeding immigration
enforcement. The attorney general’s office ordered the city to remove the immigration stipulation
from its policy or risk losing state funding.
Rather than amend the policy, the city council voted on a resolution to stop using the cameras
entirely.
A number of community members spoke against the cameras before Tuesday’s vote, citing
privacy concerns. During the meeting, some in the crowd laughed when council member Rich
Vogelzang defended the cameras and said other cities had success using them.
“They understand that law abiding persons do not need to be concerned about having license
plate reader cameras in their community,” Vogelzang said.
Chief Nicholson said the Flock cameras had already helped multiple cases get solved.
“The cameras contributed to several successful investigations, including locating stolen vehicles
and identifying individuals involved in hit-and-run accidents. In multiple cases, the technology
helped us identify and charge suspects who committed crimes in Coralville,” Chief Nicholson
said. “In several instances, we would not have been able to move cases forward without the
connecting evidence obtained through the cameras,” he said.
Council member Hai Huynh said support for the cameras existed but was outweighed by
opposition.
“Minute compared to the number that is against it. So I do agree with you that there are
community members out there that do support this. But right now — the majority of Coralville
residents is against it,” Huynh said.
The council voted 3 to 1 to terminate the contract with Flock and discontinue use of its cameras.

--- page 3 ---
Copyright 2026 KCRG. All rights reserved.
Chief Nicholson said the deactivation of the cameras is a loss.
“The cameras were a tool that made our staff more effective and efficient in solving crimes. From
an operational standpoint, their removal is a loss for the department,” Chief Nicholson said.
But the Chief said the department respects the council’s decision to terminate the contract with
Flock.
Most Read


--- page 4 ---
Inspectors cite eastern Iowa restaurants for fluid leaking
into food, improper meat storage and more
Iowa hospital accused of harvesting patient’s organs
without authorization
Cedar Rapids nursing home resident dies after being
ejected from wheelchair inside a van
Iowa inmate serving life for murder dies in prison at 47
Blue Cross Blue Shield to pay $2.67 billion settlement.
Who will see a check?
Iowa hospital nurse sanctioned for being drunk on the job
Former eastern Iowa city clerk pleads guilty after state audit finds $66K in theft


--- page 5 ---
Latest News
 Northwoods League team coming to the Field of Dreams
in 2027
‘Save the Sabre’ fundraising campaign launched to
preserve F-86 Sabre jet at Iowa City Airport
Cedar Rapids police detain man suspected of stealing
weapons
Advice from your mom!

Elementary Spanish language classroom finds permanent
home in Iowa City


--- page 6 ---
Mom’s Best Advice from KCRG Friends

University of Iowa student accused of rape
One person has died following two-vehicle crash on Outer
Drive Monday
Hawkeyes to play two Friday night football games in 2026

News
First Alert
Weather
Sports
Contact Us
YouNews
Pinpoint Doppler
Radar
KCRG 9.2
Submit a News
Story
Show You Care
Cancellations
Athlete Of The
Week
Advertise With Us
TV Listings
KCRG
501 2nd Ave SE
Cedar Rapids, IA 52401
(319) 399-5999

--- page 7 ---

Public Inspection File
FCC Applications
programming@kcrg.com - (319) 399-5999
Closed Captioning/Audio Description
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
EEO Statement
Advertising
Digital Marketing
Boxing
Cookie Settings
Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence.
A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026