Senators raise Fourth Amendment concerns over nationwide Flock camera surveillance network Skip to content Show You Care Student of the Month Everyday Families Working Iowa Memorials Advertise With Us Collette Tours Surprise Squad Aging Untold Watch Live Streaming Studio News Weather Video Sports OnIowa Live KCRG 9.2 Everyday Iowa We the People Connect YouNews Home News Everyday Iowa Iowa National I9 Investigations Our Town Working Iowa Watch Live Streaming Studio First Alert Weather Radar Weather Now CityCAM StormNet Map Room Winter Severe Weather Cancellations Weather Kids Weather Academy Rivers Sports Hawkeyes Cyclones Panthers Athlete Of The Week Big Ol' Fish Scoreboard Latest Videos OnIowa Live KCRG 9.2 Everyday Iowa Aging Untold Contact Us Meet the Team Advertise With Us Submit a News Story Community Calendar Jobs at KCRG KCRG-TV9 Daily Digest TV Listings Show You Care Calendar Surprise Squad Wagner Tails Election Results Presidential Election Map Iowa Interactive Results Everyday Families YouNews Student of the Month Contests Surprise Squad Star-Spangled Sing-Off NextGen TV Job Connection Circle Country Local News Live PowerNation InvestigateTV Watching Your Wallet Digital Marketing Gray AI Policy Senators raise Fourth Amendment concerns over nationwide Flock camera surveillance network By Ariana Figueroa Published: Sep. 27, 2026 at 7:56 PM UTC | Updated: 19 hours ago Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google WASHINGTON (Iowa Capital Dispatch) - A vast and growing network of artificial intelligence-driven Flock cameras could violate constitutional privacy rights, U.S. senators on a Judiciary Committee subcommittee said during a Wednesday hearing. GOP Sen. Josh Hawley of Missouri, the chair of the Crime and Counterterrorism Subcommittee, said the point of the hearing was to find out “what is going on with the expanding surveillance network that appears to be going coast to coast in this country.” Hawley said he invited the CEO of Flock Safety to testify, but he did not appear. Senators heard from a woman wrongly arrested over a fatal car crash after a Flock camera captured a photo of her vehicle three miles from the crash site. They speculated that more people could be falsely accused based on inaccurate information gathered by the devices. They also said Fourth Amendment violations were likely because the law enforcement agencies that use the service are able to use the data to track movements without a warrant. “If you haven’t heard of Flock, all I have to say is Flock’s probably heard of you,” Hawley said. “I’m sure we’re all in the database.” Flock did not respond to States Newsroom’s request for comment. What is Flock? Flock cameras track and record every motor vehicle that comes into view, including its license plate number, make, model, bumper stickers and color. They can also capture images of people. The information is then uploaded to a database that any law enforcement agency that contracts with the company can access without a warrant. There are more than 120,000 Flock cameras installed across the country from highways to outside grocery stores, according to the American Civil Liberties Union . The only U.S. state that does not have a Flock camera is Hawaii. Media outlets such as The Washington Post have documented abuses of the service, including law enforcement officers using the devices to stalk ex-girlfriends . U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has also tapped into Flock data through local law enforcement officials to read license plates for immigration-related searches, even though Flock denies having a contract with ICE. The backlash to the possibility of mass surveillance has been strong, with NPR reporting vandalization of Flock cameras. RELATED Whiteside County sheriff expects more Flock audits after possible misuse TV6 Investigates: Metro Flock cameras logging millions of vehicles a month Whiteside Co. deputy placed on leave over alleged Flock camera data misuse Sterling Police end Flock camera contract citing privacy, public trust concerns Mayor: Public outcry played a large role in the decision to shut down Flock in Moline ‘The potential is there to be able to find people quickly.’: QC Missing Persons Network weighs in on flock camera pause Galva Police to discontinue Flock camera program Vandals are destroying Flock cameras across Quad-Cities Arizona sheriff brushed off, he says One of the witnesses at Wednesday’s hearing, Ross Teeple, the sheriff of Pinal County, Arizona, said he ultimately decided to end a contract with Flock because he had raised privacy concerns the company did not adequately address. Some of his constituents said they were worried that people could be identified in images taken by Flock cameras. He said when he asked the company about how people could be clearly seen in the images, he felt the company brushed aside his concerns and told him the image resolution was not good enough to recognize a person. “I’m looking at camera pictures where I could recognize the person on the camera, but that was their claim …, and there was just too much disinformation from them and dishonesty,” he said. “I was trying to get answers from them, and they would not give me answers… and there were too many concerns. So we just decided not to continue our contract.” False accusation Hawley said his main worries were personal privacy and that people have the right to be treated as innocent until proven guilty. He pointed to one of the witnesses, Lindsey Isaacs of Florida, who was wrongly accused of being involved in a car accident that killed three people because a Flock automated license plate recognition camera saw her vehicle about three miles west of the crash scene. The car involved in the crash was a Dodge Durango, the same make and model as Isaacs’. But hers was black, while the car in the crash was maroon, as described by a witness. Law enforcement still arrested her at her home. She spent three days in solitary confinement and then moved to another maximum-security unit for 10 days before she was released and state prosecutors dropped charges, she told the panel. “In my case, a Flock camera captured my vehicle a few miles from the scene of a terrible crash,” she said. “That piece of information became part of an investigation that ultimately led to my arrest on three counts of vehicular homicide and 13 days in jail for a crash I had nothing to do with.” Hawley said what he finds “so troubling” is that many drivers or people walking by are being surveilled and they’ve done nothing wrong. “It sounds as if, based on the reports we’ve heard, it’s treating every citizen in America, I mean, by now, surely almost all of us have been scanned and logged as if we are criminals, yet without any due process, without any reasonable suspicion, without any articulable suspicion whatsoever,” he said. “This just seems very, very strange, to put it mildly, and something I think this committee really needs to hear about.” Abortion tracking New Jersey Democratic Sen. Cory Booker asked if Flock cameras could be used to track women in states with strict abortion laws. ACLU’s Chad Marlow, senior policy counsel, said that it would be easy to track people searching for those services. Hawley agreed with Booker and also questioned how easy it would be to create a database of certain people, such as those who attend gun shows. “When you have this amount of data available, the temptations to use it are going to be absolutely incredible, if not irresistible,” he said. Marlow said the scenarios that Booker and Hawley cited are closer than they think. “If you build it, they will come,” he said. “I so much appreciate that you’re bringing (up) abortion care seekers and gun owners because they are part of the same community when it comes to the threat of mass surveillance. This is something we need to be worried about because when you create the temptation, when you create the option for population control, at some point someone’s going to use it.” Copyright 2026 KWQC. All rights reserved. Most Read 17-year-old found dead in Waterloo; gunfire reported in area Cedar Rapids company supports 32-hour workweek Undefeated Hawkeyes to host ESPN College GameDay ahead of Ohio State showdown Cedar Rapids firefighters respond to fire at Cypress Lofts Ex-state senator sentenced in child trafficking case Showers again today, but a day of dry weather ahead Dowling Catholic Freshman Football Coach recovering after cardiac emergency on bus Police investigating reported shooting in Sioux City neighborhood Latest News Teen dead after collision with vehicle in Indianola Iowa City closing some streets this week for downtown events Largest steel plant in US coming to Iowa, White House officials share Iowa City announces street closures this week Top Stories: September 28, 2026 First Alert Forecast: Monday morning, September 28th Teen dead after collision with vehicle in Indianola Iowa City chef loses home in fire, leans on faith, family, and community News First Alert Weather Sports Contact Us YouNews Pinpoint Doppler Radar KCRG 9.2 Submit a News Story Show You Care Cancellations Athlete Of The Week Advertise With Us TV Listings KCRG 501 2nd Ave SE Cedar Rapids, IA 52401 (319) 399-5999 Public Inspection File FCC Applications programming@kcrg.com - (319) 399-5999 Closed Captioning/Audio Description Terms of Service Privacy Policy EEO Statement Advertising Digital Marketing Boxing Cookie Settings Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence. A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026 search by queryly Advanced Search