Coralville removes Flock cameras after council votes to end contract Skip to content Show You Care Student of the Month Everyday Families Working Iowa Memorials Advertise With Us Collette Tours Surprise Squad Aging Untold Watch Live Streaming Studio News Weather Video Sports OnIowa Live KCRG 9.2 Everyday Iowa We the People Connect YouNews Home News Everyday Iowa Iowa National I9 Investigations Our Town Working Iowa Watch Live Streaming Studio First Alert Weather Radar Weather Now CityCAM StormNet Map Room Winter Severe Weather Cancellations Weather Kids Weather Academy Rivers Sports Hawkeyes Cyclones Panthers Athlete Of The Week Big Ol' Fish Scoreboard Latest Videos KCRG 9.2 Everyday Iowa Aging Untold Contact Us Meet the Team Advertise With Us Submit a News Story Jobs at KCRG KCRG-TV9 Daily Digest TV Listings Show You Care Surprise Squad Wagner Tails Election Results Presidential Election Map Iowa Interactive Results Everyday Families YouNews Student of the Month Contests Surprise Squad Star-Spangled Sing-Off NextGen TV Job Connection Circle Country Local News Live PowerNation InvestigateTV Watching Your Wallet Digital Marketing Gray AI Policy Coralville removes Flock cameras after council votes to end contract By Lacey Reeves Published : Feb. 25, 2026 at 4:02 PM CST Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google CORALVILLE, Iowa (KCRG) - The city of Coralville removed its Flock license plate reader cameras Wednesday morning, one day after the city council voted to terminate its contract with the surveillance company. The council originally approved the Flock cameras in September with a stipulation that they would not be used to help find undocumented immigrants. Coralville Police Chief Kyle Nicholson said at the time that the department would not cooperate with federal immigration requests unless presented with a subpoena. “Flock will not be used on the sole basis to enforce immigration law. So if ICE is requesting access to our data, it’s a no,” Chief Nicholson said. In December, the Iowa Attorney General’s Office sent a letter to the city stating its Flock camera policy was in violation of Iowa law. That law prohibits local entities from impeding immigration enforcement. The attorney general’s office ordered the city to remove the immigration stipulation from its policy or risk losing state funding. Rather than amend the policy, the city council voted on a resolution to stop using the cameras entirely. A number of community members spoke against the cameras before Tuesday’s vote, citing privacy concerns. During the meeting, some in the crowd laughed when council member Rich Vogelzang defended the cameras and said other cities had success using them. “They understand that law abiding persons do not need to be concerned about having license plate reader cameras in their community,” Vogelzang said. Chief Nicholson said the Flock cameras had already helped multiple cases get solved. “The cameras contributed to several successful investigations, including locating stolen vehicles and identifying individuals involved in hit-and-run accidents. In multiple cases, the technology helped us identify and charge suspects who committed crimes in Coralville,” Chief Nicholson said. “In several instances, we would not have been able to move cases forward without the connecting evidence obtained through the cameras,” he said. Council member Hai Huynh said support for the cameras existed but was outweighed by opposition. “Minute compared to the number that is against it. So I do agree with you that there are community members out there that do support this. But right now — the majority of Coralville residents is against it,” Huynh said. The council voted 3 to 1 to terminate the contract with Flock and discontinue use of its cameras. Chief Nicholson said the deactivation of the cameras is a loss. “The cameras were a tool that made our staff more effective and efficient in solving crimes. From an operational standpoint, their removal is a loss for the department,” Chief Nicholson said. But the Chief said the department respects the council’s decision to terminate the contract with Flock. Copyright 2026 KCRG. All rights reserved. Most Read Inspectors cite eastern Iowa restaurants for fluid leaking into food, improper meat storage and more Iowa hospital accused of harvesting patient’s organs without authorization Cedar Rapids nursing home resident dies after being ejected from wheelchair inside a van Iowa inmate serving life for murder dies in prison at 47 Blue Cross Blue Shield to pay $2.67 billion settlement. Who will see a check? Iowa hospital nurse sanctioned for being drunk on the job Former eastern Iowa city clerk pleads guilty after state audit finds $66K in theft Northwoods League team coming to the Field of Dreams in 2027 Latest News ‘Save the Sabre’ fundraising campaign launched to preserve F-86 Sabre jet at Iowa City Airport Cedar Rapids police detain man suspected of stealing weapons Advice from your mom! Elementary Spanish language classroom finds permanent home in Iowa City Mom’s Best Advice from KCRG Friends University of Iowa student accused of rape One person has died following two-vehicle crash on Outer Drive Monday Hawkeyes to play two Friday night football games in 2026 News First Alert Weather Sports Contact Us YouNews Pinpoint Doppler Radar KCRG 9.2 Submit a News Story Show You Care Cancellations Athlete Of The Week Advertise With Us TV Listings KCRG 501 2nd Ave SE Cedar Rapids, IA 52401 (319) 399-5999 Public Inspection File FCC Applications programming@kcrg.com - (319) 399-5999 Closed Captioning/Audio Description Terms of Service Privacy Policy EEO Statement Advertising Digital Marketing Boxing Cookie Settings Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence. A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026