--- page 1 ---
Special Weather Statement Is In Effect
Special Weather Statement Is In Effect

After more than a year, CRPD calls plate
readers 'pretty amazing'
Two SUVs were outfitted with the units last winter. The computerized cameras record and store license plate
info and locations of passing vehicles. (Forrest Saunders/KCRG) (KCRG)
By Forrest Saunders
Published: Sep. 2, 2017 at 4:08 AM UTC
76
76°
Cedar Rapids
Cedar Rapids, , IA
IA

Watch Live
Watch Live
Streaming Studio
Streaming Studio
News
News
Weather
Weather
Video
Video
Sports
Sports

ADVERTISEMENT
Share
Add Us
On Google


--- page 2 ---
Cedar Rapids police are giving their automatic license plate readers rave reviews after installing
them about a year and a half ago.
Two SUVs were outfitted with the units last winter. The computerized cameras record and store
license plate info and locations of passing vehicles.
Though they don't identify the driver-- they will alert officers if the vehicle could be stolen or if
records show a registered owner is wanted. The numbers suggest they're doing their job.
Since February 2016, the two sets of readers have scanned more than one million vehicles,
they've helped find, 24 stolen vehicles, seven stolen plates, 48 wanted persons, two missing
people.
CRPD is happy with the results, considering this was all accomplished by minimal staff that likely
wouldn't have been able to do it without the cameras.
"We're talking about just two vehicles out there, so two to four officers have recovered that," said
Sgt. Doug Doyle, who helps administrate the program. "It's pretty amazing. You become a little bit
more responsive to everything else going on in the community and not paying as much attention
to the plates. You know a system is there, backing you up."


--- page 3 ---
Each camera system can scan 7,000-8,000 plates during an eight-hour shift. That's a near
impossibility for anyone else besides an automaton.
There are mistakes from time to time. The reader misread our station vehicle's plates adding an
extra letter. Still, officials say they're well worth the investment about $44,000 for the equipment,
more than $25,000 for the subscription. Money coming from grants and PD asset forfeiture.
"I think it's great," said Officer Randall Vest, who uses one of the two vehicles. "I think if we had
more of an opportunity to have more of these on vehicles, it would be more beneficial to the
public-- making the people safer."
And "more" could happen in the future. Police officials tell TV9 they will "continue to evaluate our
program and are considering adding LPRs to additional vehicles as grants or other funding
opportunities become available."
Not everyone is a fan of the readers. Some feel they're an invasion of privacy.
The ACLU of Iowa has released a statement recommending proper use of the systems.
"When used in a narrow and carefully regulated way, ALPRs can help police recover stolen cars
and arrest people with outstanding warrants," said the group. "We believe there is a way to use
ALPRs to promote public safety while also protecting citizens’ civil liberties."
Some communities, like Iowa City, even have regulations forbidding their use. Iowa City police
told TV9 in 2015 they had no interest in asking for license plate readers since a council ordinance
specifically prohibits it.
ADVERTISEMENT


--- page 4 ---
Most Read
 Ped Mall shooting suspect arrested
 Driver hits 160 mph attempting to escape troopers on
interstate, state patrol says
Iowa City police seek help identifying persons of interest in
vandalism investigation
University of Iowa assistant professor charged after
allegedly kicking officer
Social media influencer arrested, accused of refusing to
pay for almost $400 of food at restaurant
 ‘Looking forward to my day in court’: Boutique owner arrested 17 times since Jan. 1 

--- page 5 ---
Latest News
 Marion man hits squad car during chase in Cedar
Rapids, police say
Two girls drown in Clarke County creek
CommonGround previews Iowa's Farm to Fork Road Trip

Man accused of running a fake hospital in Centerville,
practicing medicine without a license
Tasty summer bites with The Hotel at Kirkwood Center



--- page 6 ---
Ped Mall shooting suspect to appear in court on
Wednesday

Iowa City moving on from developer picked for 21 S. Linn
St.

Ped Mall shooting suspect to appear in court on
Wednesday
Adventureland opens for the 2026 season on Saturday
Explore Tri-County's roofing options


News
First Alert
Weather
Sports
Contact Us
YouNews
Pinpoint Doppler
Radar
KCRG
501 2nd Ave SE
Cedar Rapids, IA 52401
(319) 399-5999

--- page 7 ---

KCRG 9.2
Submit a News
Story
Show You Care
Cancellations
Athlete Of The
Week
Advertise With Us
TV Listings
Public Inspection File
FCC Applications
programming@kcrg.com - (319) 399-5999
Closed Captioning/Audio Description
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
EEO Statement
Advertising
Digital Marketing
Boxing
Cookie Settings
Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence.
A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026