source: packet.pdf
sha256: f65952c4bc4f84e8e71d4bd177cd4da269596c35a658def56f11ce7df3470320
pages: 35
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
February 2, 2026
6:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Adam Loraine
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
Robert Newsom Jr.
AMENDED AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: February 2, 2026
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 892 6640 6161      Passcode: 513468
Item #3 ‘Conference with Labor Negotiators (Government Code Section 54957.6)’
was amended on January 30, 2026.
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of this item.
1.
Draft 2026 City of San Mateo Legislative Platform – Direction
Receive a presentation on the Draft 2026 City of San Mateo Legislative Platform and provide feedback and
direction to staff.
CEQA: This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
CLOSED SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the consideration of these items. Following the meeting a report of action
from Closed Session will be provided if required.
2.
Conference with Labor Negotiators (Government Code Section 54957.6)
City designated representatives: Aracelia Esparza, Abby Veeser, Stacey Cue, IEDA, and Employee Organizations:
San Mateo Safety Management Employees’ Association, SEIU- Library Merit, and SEIU Library Per Diem
3.
Conference with Labor Negotiators - (Government Code Section 54957.6)
City designated representatives: Aracelia Esparza and Stacey Cue, IEDA
Employee Organizations: San Mateo City Employees’ Association , San Mateo Management Employees’
Association, San Mateo Police Officers’ Association, San Mateo Police Sergeants’ Association, San Mateo Safety
1 of 35

--- page 2 ---
Management Association, SIEU- Library Merit, SIEU- Library Per Diem, SIEU- Maintenance, and SIEU- Non-Meritt
and Part-Time
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form. Organized Group and Presentations: Up to five (5) minutes for a group presentation,
with as many speakers as can be accommodated within that time allowance. To qualify for a group presentation, all individuals associated with the
presentation must be clearly identified and confirmed as in attendance at the meeting. Presentation materials must be submitted to
clerk@cityofsanmateo.org one (1) business day in advance of the meeting. 
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act to ensure meaningful access for all participants, including those with limited
English proficiency, individuals requiring special accommodations or language assistance to participate in this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s
Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable
arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting. 
2 of 35

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 26-10851
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
February 02, 2026 
SUBJECT:
Draft 2026 City of San Mateo Legislative Platform – Direction
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a presentation on the Draft 2026 City of San Mateo Legislative Platform and provide feedback and direction to 
staff.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo is considering adoption of a Legislative Platform to establish a clear, consistent framework to guide 
the City’s engagement on state legislative and budget matters. A Legislative Platform is intended to articulate the City’s 
priorities and policy positions on issues that affect municipal operations, service delivery, fiscal sustainability, and the well-
being of the San Mateo community, and to communicate those priorities to state legislators, regulatory agencies, and 
other stakeholders. 
Developing a Legislative Platform allows the City to take a more proactive and coordinated approach to legislative 
advocacy by identifying priority issue areas in advance of each legislative session. The Platform is designed to support 
informed and timely engagement on legislation, budget proposals, and funding opportunities that may impact the City, 
while preserving the City Council’s discretion to consider and adopt positions on individual legislative items as they arise.
The Legislative Platform is intended to function as a living document that may be reviewed and updated periodically to 
reflect evolving City priorities, changes in state policy, and emerging legislative issues. Adoption of a Platform does not 
limit the City Council’s authority to direct advocacy on matters outside the Platform but rather provides an organizing 
framework to support consistent evaluation and response to state-level policy initiatives. 
Development Process 
In preparation for the 2026 legislative session, City staff worked with the City’s legislative consultant, California Public 
Policy Group (CPPG), to develop a proposed Legislative Platform grounded in the City’s adopted policies, Strategic Plan, 
and operational priorities. The draft Platform was informed by a review of City guiding documents and input from City 
departments regarding key policy challenges and anticipated legislative impacts. On October 27, 2025, the draft Legislative 
Platform was reviewed by the City Council Legislative Subcommittee, whereby direction was made to make additional 
edits, and bring the draft Platform to the full City Council for consideration. 
The proposed 2026 Legislative Platform reflects a coordinated and cross-departmental process designed to align the City’s 
legislative advocacy with adopted policies, operational needs, and long-term strategic goals. As part of the development 
process, staff met with and incorporated input from multiple City departments, including: 
3 of 35

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
City Manager’s Office  
•
Community Development 
•
Public Works 
•
Parks and Recreation
•
Police 
•
San Mateo Consolidated Fire 
CPPG and staff also reviewed key guiding documents, including the City’s Housing Element, General Plan 2040, City 
Mission and Values statements, adopted equity and inclusion policies, and prior City Council Resolutions, to ensure 
consistency between the Legislative Platform and the City’s broader policy framework. 
The Draft 2026 Legislative Platform is organized by major policy subject areas that reflect the City’s adopted priorities, 
operational responsibilities, and areas of anticipated state legislative activity. The Platform includes the following subject 
areas: 
•
Community Development and Housing 
•
Transportation and Public Works 
•
Parks, Recreation, and Community Services 
•
Governmental Transparency and Public Meeting Access 
•
Utilities, Infrastructure, and Climate Adaptation 
•
Administration and Fiscal Sustainability 
•
Public Safety and Homelessness Services 
•
Fire and Emergency Medical Services 
Each policy section outlines guiding principles intended to preserve local authority, promote fiscal sustainability, advance 
equity and inclusivity, protect public safety, and support the City’s ability to deliver essential services to the community. 
The draft policy can be seen in full as Attachment 1. 
Next Steps
This study session is intended to provide the City Council with an opportunity to review the draft Platform, ask questions, 
and offer feedback or suggested refinements. Following direction from the City Council, staff will incorporate feedback and 
return a final proposed Legislative Platform for City Council consideration and adoption as a consent item at a future 
meeting.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no direct fiscal impact associated with receiving this report or providing feedback on the draft Legislative Platform.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Draft 2026 City of San Mateo Legislative Platform
STAFF CONTACT
Zachary Reda, Senior Management Analyst
zreda@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 435-0823
4 of 35

--- page 5 ---
Proposed Legislative Advocacy Policy for City of San Mateo 
SUBJECT:    Proposed State Legislative Platform 
PURPOSE 
The intent of the City of San Mateo Legislative Platform is to convey to state 
legislators, policymakers, and the public where the City stands on important 
policy issues. This Platform provides the direction needed for the City to engage 
on state initiatives that affect the City’s key priorities, programs, and/or 
operations. In line with the City’s mission, the Legislative Platform reaffirms the 
City’s commitment to serving the San Mateo community through collaboration, 
innovation, and professionalism.  
San Mateo strives to provide safe, clean, and attractive neighborhoods; 
successful businesses and solid tax base; a community where residents can 
flourish and youth are nurtured; orderly planning, development; and open, 
participative, and effective City Government. The City of San Mateo prides itself 
on being a vibrant, diverse community that is committed to equity and inclusivity, 
and stands firmly against all forms of racism, anti-immigrant sentiment, 
xenophobia and implicit bias. San Mateo is a community that is inclusive of all 
people, regardless of skin color, gender, sexual orientation or ethnicity. Respect, 
integrity, transparency and inclusivity are central values in the City, and those 
values inform the City’s legislative advocacy. 
Additionally, the City of San Mateo is a progressive community that aims to 
preserve the environment, provide economic well-being, and ensure social equity 
for our residents and businesses. Empowering local decision making and fiscal 
sustainability are underlying principles of this Platform.  
OFFICIAL POSITIONS FOR ADOPTION 
Possible positions that can be adopted on legislation include: 
Support: A support position indicates to the Legislature, regulatory 
agencies, and other stakeholders that the City is in favor of the proposed 
legislation in question. 
Sponsor: A sponsor position indicates to the Legislature, regulatory 
agencies, and other stakeholders that the City is not only in strong support 
of the legislation in question but is publicly leading the advocacy effort. 
5 of 35

--- page 6 ---
This position is only used when a Member of the Legislature has agreed to 
author a specific legislative proposal on behalf of the City.
Oppose Unless Amended: An oppose unless amended position 
indicates to the legislature, regulatory agencies, and other stakeholders 
that the City is against the proposed legislation in question, unless 
requested changes are adopted to address the City’s policy-based 
concerns. 
Oppose: An oppose position indicates to the Legislature, regulatory 
agencies, and other stakeholders that the City is against the proposed 
legislation in question. This position is often used only when/ if 
amendments or other policy compromises cannot be reached. 
Neutral: A neutral position indicates to the Legislature, regulatory 
agencies, and other stakeholders that the City has formally removed their 
prior adopted position due to changes being made to the legislation or 
proposal (e.g., a bill that the City formally adopted an “oppose unless 
amended” position  which was amended to address the City’s concerns, 
therefore the City is formally withdrawing its opposition and moving to a 
“Neutral” position). A neutral position therefore indicates that the City is 
impartial on the legislation in question.
Watch: A watch is an internal position which indicates that the City is 
closely monitoring and evaluating the legislation in question. Should 
factors change, the City reserves the right to adopt a formal external 
position.
Community Development and Housing
The City of San Mateo takes pride in its communities and works to maintain and 
improve the quality of neighborhoods and expand the City of San Mateo's 
affordable housing. Through production and preservation, utilizing public and 
private funding sources, the City has grown into a diverse and modern innovation 
hub with plentiful options for housing, employment, shopping, and leisure. 
The City is working to implement policies and programs proscribed in its certified 
housing element to achieve production goals to create a robust mix of affordable 
and market-rate housing options to house community members at all income 
levels.  
6 of 35

--- page 7 ---
San Mateo appreciates collaboration with State and regional partners to achieve 
measurable success. In that spirit, San Mateo outlines the following guiding 
policy principles for community development and housing: 
1. Support comprehensive housing legislation that addresses all contributing 
factors to California’s housing crisis.
2. Support legislation that enables the City to meet its Regional Housing 
Needs Allocation (RHNA) goals, including measures that extend 
compliance timelines, provide housing funding, and increase flexibility in 
eligible housing types—such as granting RHNA credit for each bedroom in 
multi-unit developments.
3. Support efforts to preserve existing affordable housing and protect 
housing options for extremely low-, very low-, low-, and middle-income 
residents.
4. Support incentives for housing production across all income levels—
market rate, middle, low, very low, and extremely low—while maintaining 
local land use authority.
5. Support increased local authority over the phasing of housing within 
mixed-use developments.
6. Review and evaluate legislation that would increase housing production 
ministerially, ensuring adequate opportunities for community engagement 
and City Council oversight.
7. Support legislation and funding mechanisms that promote affordable and 
regional housing projects tailored to the needs of local populations.
8. Support legislation that expands affordable homeownership opportunities 
to foster economic mobility.
9. Support funding opportunities for local jurisdictions through statewide or 
regional housing bond initiatives.
10.Oppose measures that link transportation funding to housing production 
requirements.
11.Oppose or critically evaluate legislation that directly ties production 
mandates to the RHNA process.
12.Support legislation granting additional time for the City to complete its 
housing element process.
13.Support legislation requiring the State Housing Department to provide 
clear, actionable guidance for local compliance with housing element law.
14.Oppose legislation that restricts or caps local development fees 
associated with housing projects at any income level.
15.Oppose legislation that impedes local authority to plan and site adequate 
parking to satisfy community needs. 
16.Support legislation that increases local regulatory control on mobile and 
stationary food vending.
7 of 35

--- page 8 ---
Transportation and Public Works 
The City of San Mateo understands the importance in ensuring residents have 
access to safe, resilient, equitable, and sustainable public infrastructure. The City 
oversees the maintenance of 210 miles of City streets, 87 signalized 
intersections, over 7,000 street lights, and 11 publicly-owned parking lots and 
garages.  
The City believes that close alignment with regional transportation partners is 
critical to meeting its goals. San Mateo outlines the following policy principles for 
transportation: 
1. Support legislation that promotes innovation in emerging technologies, 
particularly those that creatively address congestion and improve overall 
transportation system management.
2. Support legislation and funding for traffic signal synchronization initiatives 
to enhance safety at rights-of-way.
3. Support efforts to maximize SB 1 funding for local street and road 
rehabilitation projects that reduce congestion and improve safety.
4. Support legislation and funding mechanisms that advance a regional, 
multimodal, safe, and accessible transportation network.
5. Support legislation and funding that enable the City to fully implement 
designated “quiet zones.”
6. Support legislation and funding that allow the City to improve at-grade 
crossings, including the installation of quad gates as a cost-effective 
safety measure.
7. Support legislation and funding that facilitate the removal of grade 
crossings as train frequencies increase along the corridor.
8. Support proposals that enhance collaboration among the City, regional 
transportation partners, and the California High-Speed Rail Authority as 
the project advances.
9. Oppose legislation that restricts local authority over transportation 
permitting, utility relocation, or dispute resolution by imposing rigid state 
timelines or bypassing local planning, environmental review, or decision-
making.
10.Support legislation and funding for the rehabilitation and modernization of 
aging parking infrastructure.
11.Support increased state funding for bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure, 
including citywide access lanes and crosswalks, and legislation that 
promotes walkable and bike-friendly communities.
8 of 35

--- page 9 ---
12.Support legislation, programs, and funding that advance the City’s Vision 
Zero goal of eliminating traffic fatalities and severe injuries, as outlined in 
the San Mateo General Plan 2040.
13.Support regional funding initiatives that expand access to public 
transportation, including improved transit connections to community 
colleges.
14.Oppose legislation that diverts traffic onto local streets without providing 
adequate state funding to mitigate local impacts.
15.Support legislation recognizing the link between increased electric vehicle 
use and declining gas tax revenues, and evaluate potential impacts of a 
vehicle-miles-traveled (VMT) funding model.
16.Oppose legislation that redirects local transportation impact fees to a 
statewide VMT bank.
Parks, Recreation, and Community Services
The City of San Mateo’s parks and urban forests are important natural resources 
that provide community members with access to nature, encourage healthy 
lifestyles, and support a mixture of active and passive recreation opportunities. 
The City’s Park system includes more than a dozen neighborhood parks, nine 
community parks, six recreation/community centers, two pools, the Shoreline 
regional park system, several small “mini” parks, and an estuary lagoon for 
boating. Combined, the San Mateo community has access to approximately 795 
acres of parks and open space. The City hosts diverse activities from senior 
programming, dance, music, and fitness classes to youth sports and camps to 
encourage healthy community engagement.  
Creating equitable access to programs and services and collaborating with 
regional stakeholders and state legislative leaders to explore new policies to 
provide local flexibility and innovative approaches. As such, San Mateo outlines 
the following policy goals to support children, youth, and seniors: 
1. Support legislation that advances youth development, including initiatives 
that expand student enrollment, equitable access to internet and 
technology, and youth services.
2. Support legislation that promotes youth well-being and enhances school 
safety.
3. Support legislation that increases childcare funding, including resources 
for preserving existing childcare facilities and developing new ones.
4. Support legislation and funding for youth scholarship programs that 
expand access to extracurricular and enrichment activities.
5. Support legislation that streamlines development processes and reduces 
barriers to improve access, affordability, and availability of childcare 
facilities.
9 of 35

--- page 10 ---
6. Support legislation and funding opportunities to improve park facilities, 
address deferred maintenance, and encourage interagency coordination 
when appropriate.
7. Support legislation and funding that promote physical activity, including 
the maintenance and expansion of city parks, playgrounds, sports 
facilities, and community centers.
8. Support legislation and funding for youth, teen, and senior programming 
as a long-term investment in community development.
9. Support programs and funding initiatives that expand access to mental 
health services for all residents, particularly children, youth, and seniors.
10.Support legislation and funding opportunities—including federal, state, and 
conservancy grants—that strengthen communities through investments in 
clean air and water, parks, open space, natural resources, historic 
preservation, arts, and cultural amenities.
11.Oppose efforts that reduce funding for regional and community services 
that provide access to parks, open space, bike lanes, after-school 
programs, youth services, senior services, food programs, recreation 
facilities, and other essential resources supporting health, safety, and 
sustainability.
12.Support local agency authority to establish and manage policies that 
recognize and enhance the benefits of parks and recreation facilities.
13.Support state investments in urban forestry to protect and expand the tree 
canopy through long-term management plans that promote climate 
resilience, biodiversity, and equity across neighborhoods.
Governmental Transparency and Public Meeting Access  
Local agencies across the state embraced virtual/remote public meetings to 
protect the public, agency staff, and elected and appointed officials. Moreover, it 
has been observed that this approach has increased constituent participation in 
the public process while upholding the highest levels of transparency. State 
initiatives to expand public meeting access should preserve local flexibility in 
implementation and include reimbursement for any associated costs.
1. Support legislation that enhances public trust, confidence, and access to 
public meetings while recognizing the fiscal and operational constraints of 
local government.
2. Support legislative and state funded efforts that strengthen public 
confidence in the electoral process through improved voter outreach, 
education, integrity measures, and sustainable resource allocation.
10 of 35

--- page 11 ---
3. Support legislation that expands civic participation and engagement, 
including continued flexibility for subsidiary bodies to meet without 
physical posting requirements under the Ralph M. Brown Act.
4. Support legislation permitting a minority of council members to participate 
virtually without physical location posting requirements, provided an in-
person quorum is maintained.
5. Support legislation allowing councilmembers serving multi-jurisdictional 
bodies to participate remotely without physical location posting 
requirements.
6. Support state funding initiatives that enhance public access and 
participation in local government meetings and processes.
7. Oppose legislation that increases the cost of municipal hearings through 
unnecessary or burdensome new requirements.
8. Support legislation that enhances transparency and timely reporting of 
election results by establishing clear standards for official canvass 
timelines, while maintaining flexibility and funding support for local 
agencies to meet operational requirements.
9. Oppose legislation that imposes new mandates under the California Public 
Records Act without accompanying state reimbursement provisions.
10.Oppose legislation that mandates uniform, one-size-fits-all local record 
retention policies, limiting local flexibility. 
Other policy-related matters important to the City of San Mateo Include:  
Utilities, Infrastructure, and Climate Adaptation 
1. Support legislation that advances the development and long-term 
sustainability of locally operated Community Choice Aggregators (CCAs).
2. Support legislation that ensures ratepayer equity between CCAs and other 
public or private electric utilities.
3. Oppose legislation that transfers wildfire-related costs from investor-
owned utilities to cities or their residents.
4. Oppose legislation requiring streetlight and traffic signal poles to be made 
available for small wireless facility installations without local review, 
engagement, or approval.
5. Support legislation that fosters collaborative regional efforts to mitigate the 
impacts of sea level rise and flooding.
6. Support and monitor legislation that expands funding and access to water 
conservation, reuse, recycling, storage, and other water supply 
technologies.
11 of 35

--- page 12 ---
7. Support legislation that strengthens the City’s ability to maintain and 
enhance local utilities and infrastructure.
8. Advocate for increased funding for stormwater management programs 
and the ongoing maintenance of stormwater infrastructure.
9. Oppose legislation that restructures stormwater quality programs by 
imposing new penalties or unfunded mandates that increase local cost 
burdens. 
10. Support legislation and funding that advance community resilience, 
environmental sustainability and strategies to achieve greenhouse gas 
emission reduction targets in the City's Climate Action Plan.
Solid Waste and Recycling 
1. Support legislation that preserves and strengthens local authority and 
fiscal flexibility to regulate solid waste and recycling operations.
2. Support adequate state funding for new solid waste and recycling 
requirements to offset associated program costs.
3. Support legislation and funding opportunities that promote the 
development of local and regional recycling and composting facilities. 
Administration and Fiscal Sustainability  
1. Support legislation and funding initiatives that assist local governments in 
stabilizing and managing increasing pension obligations, including through 
the use of excess State budget surplus revenues.
2. Support legislation that advances San Mateo County’s efforts to revise 
statutes related to the Vehicle Licensing Fee (VLF) shortfall to ensure the 
appropriate allocation of excess Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund 
(ERAF) monies.
3. Support legislation and ballot measures that protect the City’s fiscal 
health, responsibilities, legal authority, and operations; uphold existing 
City policies, prior actions, or current City Council strategic priorities; and 
enhance programs, services, or infrastructure that benefit San Mateo 
residents.
4. Oppose legislation and ballot measures that threaten the City’s financial 
stability, responsibilities, legal authority, or operations; conflict with 
existing City policies, prior actions, or current City Council strategic 
priorities; or diminish programs, services, or infrastructure serving the San 
Mateo community.
5. Support legislation and ballot measures that provide additional or 
enhanced funding mechanisms to construct, reconstruct, rehabilitate, or 
12 of 35

--- page 13 ---
replace public infrastructure; develop affordable and permanent supportive 
housing; or acquire or lease property for those purposes.
6. Oppose legislation that restricts the City’s authority to contract for 
professional services or imposes unnecessary and costly delays in the 
contracting process.
Public Safety and Homelessness Services 
1. Support legislation, ballot measures, and funding mechanisms that 
expand mental health and trauma intervention programs for first 
responders.
2. Review and evaluate legislation addressing extended EMS response 
times resulting from increased density, traffic calming measures, and 
higher call volumes.
3. Support legislation that advances community-oriented public safety 
practices, including the integration of mental health service providers 
when appropriate.
4. Support legislation that strengthens local law enforcement capacity and 
promotes regional collaboration and data-sharing in resource deployment 
and specialized task force operations.
5. Support state funding for local law enforcement to enforce the provisions 
enacted in Proposition 36.
6. Review and evaluate legislation establishing best practices for law 
enforcement procedures and implementation.
7. Support efforts to increase federal and state funding aimed at preventing 
and reducing homelessness in San Mateo and throughout San Mateo 
County.
8. Support legislation and funding mechanisms that expand regional 
programs addressing homelessness and supporting formerly homeless 
individuals, including funding for emergency shelters, rapid rehousing, and 
supportive services for vulnerable populations.
9. Support measures that provide resources to address the moderate and 
severe mental health needs of individuals experiencing homelessness.
10.Support legislation that balances local authority for parking enforcement 
with consideration of the potential impacts on vulnerable residents.
11.Support legislation that enhances coordination between local law 
enforcement agencies and the technology and data sectors.
12.Support legislation establishing clear regulations for electric bike use and 
reinforcing local enforcement authority.
13.Support legislation and funding that promotes electric bike and scooter 
safety, including education about safe charging equipment and fire 
hazards. 
13 of 35

--- page 14 ---
Fire and Emergency Medical Services (EMS)  
1. Support legislation, ballot measures, and funding mechanisms that 
advance the development of a regional fire training center.
2. Support legislation and funding initiatives that strengthen the training, 
recruitment, and retention of firefighters.
3. Support legislation establishing a state sales tax exemption for the 
purchase of emergency response vehicles and fire apparatus.
4. Support legislation and funding mechanisms for the construction of a new 
fleet maintenance facility and incentives to recruit and retain qualified 
mechanics within fire department operations.
5. Support legislation that studies and mitigates the health and safety 
impacts of electric vehicle and lithium-ion battery combustion.
6. Support legislation and funding that provide resources and protections for 
first responders exposed to toxins resulting from electric vehicle and 
lithium-ion battery fires.
7. Support legislation that aligns building codes and product safety 
standards with the fire risks associated with electric vehicle and lithium-
ion battery charging infrastructure.
8. Support legislation and funding for hazmat equipment, training, and 
personnel. 
14 of 35

--- page 15 ---
1
From:
Robert Whitehair 
>
Sent:
Monday, February 2, 2026 2:59 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Alex Khojikian; Zachary Reda; Andrea Chow; Clerk; Michelle Hudson
Subject:
Legislative positions
Dear Mayor Loraine and City Council, thank you for your consideration of legislative positions, moving 
forward. 
 
My apologies for not reading the Council agendas earlier, and being a little late to the game in raising the 
following concerns.  
 
In response to agenda Item 1 on the City Council Special Meeting at 6 PM tonight, it is respectfully 
requested that one of the City's legislative priorities, specifically "Utilities, Infrastructure, and Climate 
Adaptation" be modified.  
 
I believe that including climate change issues under such a broad list of "Other" policy issues along with 
Utilities and Infrastructure, does not give significant climate matters the attention and gravitas that 
climate issues deserve.  This is of special concern given that San Mateo has been and continues to be a 
leader in response to the climate crisis, and also because the City has at the request of advocates and 
the Council, taken strong positions on behalf of the climate. Memorializing all these, in the form of 
legislative positions would be a great start of a platform for the future. 
 
Therefore, it is requested in the Proposed Legislative Advocacy Policy, that Climate issues be removed 
from the "Utilities, Infrastructure, and Climate Adaptation" category, to be inserted into a new category: 
"Climate Response", thereby creating for this new category the same importance as Community 
Development and Housing, Transportation and Public Works, Parks Recreation and Community 
SErvices, and Governmental Transparency and Public Meeting Access. 
 
Other, possibly new line items in this new "Climate Response" category, could include the addition of 
The City of San Mateo's stated position on banks having investments in fossil fuels, or taking a position 
on cap and reinvest (aka cap and trade), as well as other issues such as the fiscal responsibility of fossil 
fuel companies for damages to the environment.  I do note that the proposed line item: "Oppose 
legislation that transfers wildfire-related costs from investor owned utilities to cities or their residents" is 
a great place to start, and respectfully request a position on the other items listed in this paragraph. 
 
Thank you for your consideration of this last minute request.  
 
Robert Whitehair (he, him) 
Co-Leader San Mateo Climate Action Team 
 
Robert (he, him) 
 
15 of 35

--- page 16 ---
2
Acknowledgement: I reside on the unceded lands of our indigenous ancestors the Ramaytush 
Ohlone, while benefiting from racial privilege. We begin making reparations by accepting only a 
kinship view of our place on the planet: All life is interconnected, interdependent, and interrelated.  
 
 
16 of 35

--- page 17 ---
City of San Mateo
City Legislative Policy & 
Platform Study Session 
February 2, 2026
Zack Reda, Senior Management Analyst
Dane Hutchings, CEO & Founder, CPPG
Claire Sullivan, Associate Lobbyist
Douglas Andreasen, Legislative Aide
1
17 of 35

--- page 18 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Highlights of Platform Statements 
•
Fire and Emergency Medical Services
•
Community Development and Housing
•
Transportation and Public Works
•
Parks, Recreation, and Community Services
•
Governmental Transparency and Public 
Meeting Access
•
Utilities, Infrastructure, Climate Adaptations
•
Administration and Fiscal Sustainability
•
Public Safety and Homelessness Services
Session Overview
•
2026 Legislative State-of-Play
•
Legislative Platform Background and 
Purpose 
•
Drafting Process
•
Advocacy Engagement Process
18 of 35

--- page 19 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
2026 Legislative State-of-Play 
Budget uncertainty
More Than 225 Measures Introduced So Far Touching On Many Areas of Interest 
•
Governmental Transparency
•
Housing, Land Use and Planning
•
Local Government Revenues 
•
E-bike Safety
•
Energy, Utilities, Water and Solid Waste
•
Public Safety and EMS 
Projected ~1,000+ Individual Pieces Of Legislation To Be Introduced By February 20, 2026
19 of 35

--- page 20 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Legislative Timing 
20 of 35

--- page 21 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Legislative State Timing 
February 20: Bill introduction deadline
March 25: Spring Recess 
April 6: Legislature reconvenes 
Mid-May: Governor releases the May Revise 
Budget
May 29: Last day for the Legislature to pass bills 
out of their house of origin 
June 15: Legislature must pass the budget bill 
June 30: Governor must sign the budget bill 
21 of 35

--- page 22 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Legislative Platform
(the platform in its entirety is included with meeting 
materials)
22 of 35

--- page 23 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Platform development process
Department Meetings 
•
Met with: 
•
City Managers Office 
•
Economic Development
•
Sustainability 
•
Community Development, Planning and 
Housing
•
Public Works
•
San Mateo Consolidated Fire Authority 
•
Police Department
•
Parks and Recreation
Documents Reviewed
•
Reviewed:
•
Housing element
•
DEI Strategic Plan, Council Resolutions on Racial Justice
•
City Mission and Values Statements
•
San Mateo General Plan 2040
Aligned priorities from department heads with known position 
statements from similar agencies to develop proposed 
legislative platform
Platform statements were added to respond to emerging 
legislative trends
23 of 35

--- page 24 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Advocacy Engagement Process
If a legislative proposal clearly aligns with the adopted platform, the City Manager may 
authorize the Mayor, or in their absence the Vice Mayor, to sign advocacy letters without 
additional Council or Sub-Committee approval. 
In accordance with State and Federal legislative procedures, advocacy letters and related 
activities may be updated and resubmitted throughout the legislative process. 
Examples Include:
•
Resubmitting advocacy letters and modifying advocacy letters based on amendments 
•
Testifying in policy committees
•
Attending meetings with state legislative, regulatory and administrative agencies 
•
Negotiating amendments/ comments/ policy on legislative, regulatory or administrative actions. 
•
Seeking funding for key programs and city initiatives   
•
Meeting with stakeholders involved in the state legislative, regulatory and administrative proposal. 
24 of 35

--- page 25 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Advocacy Engagement Process 
Extenuating Circumstances 
Because State and Federal legislative timelines differ from local government procedures governed by 
the Ralph M. Brown Act, immediate action may sometimes be required. 
If urgent action is needed before Council approval can be obtained as outlined in Section 1, the Mayor 
or City Manager may act without prior approval, provided the proposal: 
a. Does not conflict with the adopted legislative platform; AND 
b. Directly affects the City’s finances, authority, operations, or a substantial portion of the San Mateo 
community; AND 
c. Seeks to protect or enhance local revenues, control, or funding; OR 
d. Provides benefits to City programs, services, or infrastructure; OR 
e. Opposes an unfunded mandate; AND 
f.
Aligns with League of California Cities or National League of Cities positions; AND 
g. Has been reviewed by the City Attorney or designee. 
25 of 35

--- page 26 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Fire and Emergency Medical Services
 
Draft Platform Statement(s) [7 total]:
“Support legislation, ballot measures, and funding 
mechanisms that advance the development of a 
regional fire training center.”
“Support legislation that studies and mitigates the 
health and safety impacts of electric vehicle battery 
combustion.”
Fire Training 
Center
Fleet 
Maintenance
Fire Fleet Tax 
Exemption
EV Mandate 
Safety
Recruitment 
and 
Retention
26 of 35

--- page 27 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Community Development and Housing
 
Draft Platform Statement(s) [15 total]:
“Support comprehensive housing legislation 
that addresses all contributing factors to 
California’s housing crisis.”
“Support efforts to preserve existing 
affordable housing and protect housing 
options for extremely low-, very low-, low-, 
and middle-income residents.”
Preserve and 
Protect Housing 
Options
Expand Affordable 
Homeownership 
Opportunities
Housing 
Production 
Incentives
Local Phasing 
Authority for 
Housing in Mixed-
Use Dev.
Promote Public 
Participation
27 of 35

--- page 28 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Transportation and Public Works
 Draft Platform Statement(s) [16 total]:
“Support legislation that promotes innovation in 
emerging technologies, particularly those that 
creatively address congestion and improve 
overall transportation system management.”
“Oppose legislation that restricts local authority 
over transportation permitting, utility relocation, 
or dispute resolution by imposing rigid state 
timelines or bypassing local planning, 
environmental review, or decision-making.”
Regional Public 
Transportation 
Collaboration
Vision Zero 
Goals
Sustainable 
EV Adoption
Bicycle and 
Pedestrian 
Infrastructure 
Funding
“Quiet 
Zones”
28 of 35

--- page 29 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Parks, Recreation and Community Services
 
Draft Platform Statement(s) [12 total]:
“Support legislation that advances youth development, 
including initiatives that expand student enrollment, 
equitable access to internet and technology, and youth 
services.”
“Oppose efforts that reduce funding for regional and 
community services that provide access to parks, open 
space, bike lanes, after-school programs, youth 
services, food programs, recreation facilities, and other 
essential resources supporting health, safety, and 
sustainability.”
Promote 
Youth Well-
Being
Increase 
Childcare 
Resources
Encourage 
Healthy 
Lifestyles
Scholarships 
for Inclusive 
Programming
Invest in 
Clean Air, 
Water, Parks, 
History, and 
Art
29 of 35

--- page 30 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Governmental Transparency and Public Meeting 
Access
 Draft Platform Statement(s) [8 
total]:
“Support legislation that enhances public 
trust, confidence, and access to public 
meetings while recognizing the fiscal and 
operational constraints of local 
government.”
“Oppose legislation that increases the cost 
of municipal hearings through unnecessary 
or burdensome new requirements.”
Expand Civic 
Participation
Streamline 
Remote 
Participation
Improve 
Access and 
Ensure 
Security 
Public Records 
Act
Increase 
Public Trust
30 of 35

--- page 31 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Utilities, Infrastructure, Climate Adaptation
 
Draft Platform Statement(s) [9 total]:
“Support legislation that strengthens the 
City’s ability to maintain and enhance 
local utilities and infrastructure.”
“Oppose legislation that transfers 
wildfire-related costs from investor-
owned utilities to cities or their 
residents.”
Support 
Sustainabilit
y
Invest in 
Stormwater 
Management
Ensure 
Ratepayer 
Equity
Enhance 
Local 
Utilities
Mitigate Sea 
Level Rise
31 of 35

--- page 32 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Administration and Fiscal Sustainability
 
Draft Platform Statement(s) [6 total]:
“Support legislation that advances San Mateo County’s 
efforts to revise statutes related to the Vehicle Licensing 
Fee (VLF) shortfall to ensure the appropriate allocation 
of excess Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund 
(ERAF) monies..”
“Oppose legislation that restricts the City’s authority to 
contract for professional services or imposes 
unnecessary and costly delays in the contracting 
process.” 
Advocate for 
Fulfillment of 
State Funding 
Obligations
Improve Public 
Infrastructure
Stabilize Pension 
Obligations
Enhance 
Services to 
Benefit Residents
Preserve 
Contracting 
Autonomy
32 of 35

--- page 33 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Public Safety and Homelessness Services
 
Draft Platform Statement(s) [13 total]:
“Support legislation that advances community-
oriented public safety practices, including the 
integration of mental health service providers 
when appropriate.”
“Support legislation that strengthens local law 
enforcement capacity and promotes regional 
collaboration in resource deployment and 
specialized task force operations.”
Community-
Oriented Public 
Safety
Invest in Rapid 
Rehousing and 
Support Services
Collaborative 
Response
Enhanced 
Penalties for 
Repeat Retail 
Crime
Electric Bike 
Safety
33 of 35

--- page 34 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Next Steps
 Council note: Please review and discuss the proposed platform and submit 
suggestions. Staff and consultants will make edits based upon feedback and bring 
back for adoption at a later council meeting.
Considerations for feedback:
• State policies that have an impact on departmental operations. ​
• Assessing major issues/projects/ initiatives within the City that need to be 
considered or shared. ​
• Major policy areas of importance that CPPG should be monitoring more closely. ​
• Critical funding priorities for the City that CPPG should know more about. ​
• How can CPPG best support the City in its advocacy efforts.
34 of 35

--- page 35 ---
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
Questions / Thank You!
CALIFORNIA PUBLIC POLICY GROUP  •  PUBLICPOLICYGROUP.COM
35 of 35