--- page 1 ---
 Severe Weather:
Severe Thunderstorm Watch and 3 more alerts
×
 Watch Now:
5 EYEWITNESS NEWS Morning
×
St. Paul reopens debate on use of Flock Safety
cameras
Kyle Brown and Bailey Hurley KSTP
June 24, 2026 - 9:25 PM
St. Paul police and civil rights advocates shared differing perspectives on the use of Flock Safety cameras, a controversial surveillance tool
that has gained scrutiny since the start of Operation Metro Surge.
Flock contracts with law enforcement and private entities to operate its national network of more than 100,000 automated license plate
readers. The cameras constantly scan license plates of passing vehicles, and Flock says its devices do not use facial recognition
technology.
More than 100 agencies across Minnesota currently partner with Flock, according to data from the state’s Bureau of Criminal
Apprehension, but some cities, such as Columbia Heights and Brooklyn Park, have canceled those contracts, citing concerns that data was
being shared with federal immigration agencies.
Proponents, meanwhile, argue the cameras are another tool for law enforcement to find criminals and that state law restricts what data can
be shared with outside agencies.
Related stories:
More Minnesota police agencies use Flock cameras to fight crime. But who has the keys to the data?
Roadside cameras going dark: Another department makes changes to program over accountability concerns
North Branch community invited to weigh in on possible police partnership with Flock
Columbia Heights expected to remove 12 Flock cameras
During a meeting of the St. Paul City Council’s Public Safety Committee on Wednesday, St. Paul Police Department officials said every use
of the technology is limited, documented and audited.
“Public safety and constitutional rights are not competing values. They must exist together,” SPPD Deputy Chief Kurt Hallstrom said. “The
standard we apply is simple: If a technology cannot be used lawfully, transparently and accountably, we should not be using it.”
SPPD Sr. Cmdr. Ryan Murphy added that the department’s license plate reader data is not shared outside of Minnesota, and no searches
had been performed by out-of-state agencies over the past six months.
SPPD uses two Flock license plate readers, both near the intersection of Kellogg Avenue and Smith Street. The city’s contract with Flock
runs through 2028.
John Boehler, policy director for the American Civil Liberties Union of Minnesota, urged council members to consider stronger regulations
on how surveillance technologies are used.
St. Paul police flock camera debate

Opt-Out Signal Honored

--- page 2 ---
Those proposals ranged from canceling the city’s contract with Flock entirely to opting into the company’s optional transparency portals,
which include information on each agency’s policies for collecting data and which agencies are granted access to that data.
Boehler also recommended an end to sharing data with any jurisdiction that has signed a 287(g) agreement to assist with federal
immigration enforcement. Eight counties and two cities in Minnesota have entered into such partnerships.
“What those agencies do with the data after they receive it from SPPD, they’re obligated under state law to follow those state practices, but
there is nothing practically preventing them from sharing the data,” Boehler said.
No changes were made to St. Paul’s Flock contract on Wednesday, but council members made it clear the debate is far from over as they
weigh privacy, transparency and public safety needs.
For Related Stories:  Public Safety    St. Paul    St. Paul City Council    St. Paul Police Department    Technology
Home Page
Top Stories
News
Sports
Featured on 5
Weather
Video
Traffic
Twin Cities Live
Minnesota Live
Contact Us
KSTP TV Schedules
Work With Us
KSTP-TV FCC Public Inspection File
KSTC-TV FCC Public Inspection File
KSAX-TV FCC Public Inspection File
KRWF-TV FCC Public Inspection File
Additional Public Information
KSTP-TV, KSTC-TV FCC Applications
KSAX-TV FCC Applications
KRWF-TV FCC Applications
Terms of Use
DMCA Notice
Contest Rules
Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy
About NEXTGEN TV
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Preferences
Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public File may contact KSTP via our online form or
call 651-646-5555
This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area.
© 2026 KSTP-TV, LLC
A Hubbard Broadcasting Company
 
 
 
 
Opt-Out Signal Honored