St. Paul reopens debate on use of Flock Safety cameras - KSTP.com 5 Eyewitness News X close News Weather Watch Live Sports Featured on 5 76° Minneapolis, MN Search Home Page Top Stories News Tracking Your Tax Dollars Accountability Inside Your Schools Money Matters Crime Solutions Local News 5 Investigates National & World News Business Health & Medical News Political News Entertainment News Sports Sports Home Minnesota Vikings Minnesota Timberwolves Minnesota Wild Minnesota Twins Minnesota Lynx Minnesota United College Sports High School Sports Prep 45 - Watch the 2026 MSHSL Tournaments Featured on 5 Featured on 5 Links So Minnesota Community Events Inside Your Health Contests Why We Give 45TV Weather Seven Day Outlook Interactive Radar School Alert & Closings Weather Alerts Current Conditions Video KSTP Livestreaming Channel Digital Extras ABC News Live Video At Issue with Tom Hauser Traffic Twin Cities Live Minnesota Live Contact Us Contact 5 Eyewitness News Newsletter News Team KSTP Mobile Apps Submit a News Tip Submit Photos and Videos Advertising & Marketing Services Viewer Feedback Frequently Asked Questions Hubbard Broadcasting Stations KSTP TV Schedules Work With Us × Severe Weather: Severe Thunderstorm Watch and 3 more alerts × Watch Now: 5 EYEWITNESS NEWS Morning St. Paul reopens debate on use of Flock Safety cameras Kyle Brown and Bailey Hurley KSTP June 24, 2026 - 9:25 PM Video Player is loading. Play Video Play Mute Current Time 0:00 / Duration 0:00 Loaded : 0% Stream Type LIVE Seek to live, currently behind live LIVE Remaining Time - 0:00 1x Playback Rate Chapters Chapters Descriptions descriptions off , selected Captions captions settings , opens captions settings dialog captions off , selected Audio Track Picture-in-Picture Fullscreen This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. Text Color White Black Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Opaque Semi-Transparent Background Color Black White Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Opaque Semi-Transparent Transparent Window Color Black White Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Transparent Semi-Transparent Opaque Font Size 50% 75% 100% 125% 150% 175% 200% 300% 400% Text Edge Style None Raised Depressed Uniform Dropshadow Font Family Proportional Sans-Serif Monospace Sans-Serif Proportional Serif Monospace Serif Casual Script Small Caps Reset restore all settings to the default values Done Close Modal Dialog End of dialog window. St. Paul police flock camera debate St. Paul police flock camera debate St. Paul police and civil rights advocates shared differing perspectives on the use of Flock Safety cameras, a controversial surveillance tool that has gained scrutiny since the start of Operation Metro Surge. Flock contracts with law enforcement and private entities to operate its national network of more than 100,000 automated license plate readers. The cameras constantly scan license plates of passing vehicles, and Flock says its devices do not use facial recognition technology. More than 100 agencies across Minnesota currently partner with Flock, according to data from the state’s Bureau of Criminal Apprehension, but some cities, such as Columbia Heights and Brooklyn Park, have canceled those contracts, citing concerns that data was being shared with federal immigration agencies. Proponents, meanwhile, argue the cameras are another tool for law enforcement to find criminals and that state law restricts what data can be shared with outside agencies. Related stories: More Minnesota police agencies use Flock cameras to fight crime. But who has the keys to the data? Roadside cameras going dark: Another department makes changes to program over accountability concerns North Branch community invited to weigh in on possible police partnership with Flock Columbia Heights expected to remove 12 Flock cameras During a meeting of the St. Paul City Council’s Public Safety Committee on Wednesday, St. Paul Police Department officials said every use of the technology is limited, documented and audited. “Public safety and constitutional rights are not competing values. They must exist together,” SPPD Deputy Chief Kurt Hallstrom said. “The standard we apply is simple: If a technology cannot be used lawfully, transparently and accountably, we should not be using it.” SPPD Sr. Cmdr. Ryan Murphy added that the department’s license plate reader data is not shared outside of Minnesota, and no searches had been performed by out-of-state agencies over the past six months. SPPD uses two Flock license plate readers, both near the intersection of Kellogg Avenue and Smith Street. The city’s contract with Flock runs through 2028. John Boehler, policy director for the American Civil Liberties Union of Minnesota, urged council members to consider stronger regulations on how surveillance technologies are used. Those proposals ranged from canceling the city’s contract with Flock entirely to opting into the company’s optional transparency portals, which include information on each agency’s policies for collecting data and which agencies are granted access to that data. Boehler also recommended an end to sharing data with any jurisdiction that has signed a 287(g) agreement to assist with federal immigration enforcement. Eight counties and two cities in Minnesota have entered into such partnerships. “What those agencies do with the data after they receive it from SPPD, they’re obligated under state law to follow those state practices, but there is nothing practically preventing them from sharing the data,” Boehler said. No changes were made to St. Paul’s Flock contract on Wednesday, but council members made it clear the debate is far from over as they weigh privacy, transparency and public safety needs. For Related Stories: Public Safety St. Paul St. Paul City Council St. Paul Police Department Technology Home Page Top Stories News Sports Featured on 5 Weather Video Traffic Twin Cities Live Minnesota Live Contact Us KSTP TV Schedules Work With Us KSTP-TV FCC Public Inspection File KSTC-TV FCC Public Inspection File KSAX-TV FCC Public Inspection File KRWF-TV FCC Public Inspection File Additional Public Information KSTP-TV, KSTC-TV FCC Applications KSAX-TV FCC Applications KRWF-TV FCC Applications Terms of Use DMCA Notice Contest Rules Hubbard Television Group Privacy Policy About NEXTGEN TV Your Privacy Choices Cookie Preferences Any person with disabilities who needs help accessing the content of the FCC Public File may contact KSTP via our online form or call 651-646-5555 This website is not intended for users located within the European Economic Area. © 2026 KSTP-TV, LLC A Hubbard Broadcasting Company KSTP Follow