Ring Just Ended Its Controversial Partnership With Flock Safety | Lifehacker Skip to Main Content View our Bluesky Page (Opens in a new tab) View our Instagram Page (Opens in a new tab) View on Facebook Page (Opens in a new tab) View our Youtube Page (Opens in a new tab) View our Twitter Page (Opens in a new tab) Latest Tech Best Picks Entertainment Health Reviews Home & Garden Deals Comparisons Hacks Latest Tech AI TVs Hardware Software Mobile Apps Privacy All Tech Best Picks Best VPN to Watch Porn Best Paid VPN Best Smartwatches Best Fitness Tracker Best E-Bikes Best Digital Notebooks Best Non-Kindle E-readers Best Cordless Power Tools Best Power Tools Best Laptops Best Laptops for College Students Best 65 Inch TV Best Budget QLED Best Android Phones Best Flashcard Apps Best Camera Apps iPhone All Best Picks Entertainment Wordle Connections Strands Streaming Gaming All Entertainment Health Fitness Training Diaries All Health Reviews Home & Garden Cleaning All Home & Garden Deals Comparisons Hacks Home Tech Privacy Copied Ring Just Ended Its Controversial Partnership With Flock Safety The company says no Ring footage was ever sent to Flock Safety during this time. Jake Peterson Jake Peterson Senior Technology Editor Experience Jake Peterson is Lifehacker’s Tech Editor, and has been covering tech news and how-tos for nearly a decade. His team covers all things technology, including AI, smartphones, computers, game consoles, and subscriptions. Areas of Expertise AI Android Apple Privacy Read Full Bio February 13, 2026 Comments Add as a preferred source on Google Add as a preferred source on Google Credit: CC Photo Labs/Shutterstock Key Takeaways In a blog post on Friday, Ring announced the end of its partnership with Flock Safety. The announcement follows backlash to Ring's "Search Party" Super Bowl ad, which critics have seen as a slippery slope to infringing user privacy. Ring says that the Flock Safety integration never went through, so no Ring footage was ever sent to the organization. Table of Contents Table of Contents Table of Contents Table of Contents Ring cancels its partnership with Flock Safety Ring isn't having the week it probably thought it would have. The Amazon-owned company aired an ad on Super Bowl Sunday for " Search Party ," its new feature that turns a neighborhood's collective Ring cameras into one network, with the goal of locating lost dogs. Viewers, however, saw this as a major privacy violation—it doesn't take much to imagine using this type of surveillance tech to locate people, not pets. The backlash wasn't just isolated to the ad, however. The controversy reignited criticisms of the company's partnership with Flock Safety, a security company that sells security cameras that track vehicles, notably for license plate recognition. But the partnership with Ring wasn't about tracking vehicles: Instead, Flock Safety's role was to make it easier for law enforcement agencies that use Flock Safety software to request Ring camera footage from users. Agencies could put in a request to an area where a crime supposedly took place, and Ring users would be notified about the request. They didn't have to agree to share footage, however. Law enforcement could already request footage from Ring users, through the platform's existing "Community Requests" feature. But this partnership would let agencies make these requests directly through Flock Safety's software. If a user submitted footage following a request, Ring said that data would be "securely packaged" by Flock Safety and share to the agency through FlockOS or Flock Nova. You May Also Like Ring cancels its partnership with Flock Safety That partnership is officially over. On Friday, Ring published a blog post announcing the end of its relationship with Flock Safety. The company said, after a review, the integration "would require significantly more time and resources than anticipated." As such, both parties have agree to cancel the partnership. What do you think so far? Be the first to post a comment. Importantly, Ring says that since the integration never actually launched, no user footage was ever sent to Flock Safety—despite the company announcing the partnership four months ago. Social media influencers had spread the false claim that Flock Safety was seeding Ring footage directly to law enforcement agencies, such as ICE. While those claims are inaccurate, they were likely fueled by reporting from 404 Media that ICE has been able to access Flock Safety's data in its investigations. Had Ring's partnership with Flock Safety gone ahead, there would be legitimate cause to believe that agencies like ICE could tap into the footage Ring users had shared—even if those users were under the impression they were only sharing footage with local agencies to solve specific cases. While privacy advocates will likely celebrate this news, the cancelled partnership has no effect on Community Requests. Law enforcement agencies will still be able to request footage from Ring users, and those users will still have a say in whether or not they send that footage. Ring sees the feature as an objective good, allowing users to voluntarily share footage that could help law enforcement solve important cases. In its announcement on Friday, Ring cited the December 2025 Brown University shooting, in which seven users shared 168 video clips with law enforcement. According to Ring, one of those videos assisted police in identifying the suspect's car, which, in turn, solved the case. The Download Newsletter Never miss a tech story Jake Peterson Senior tech editor Get the latest tech news, reviews, and advice from Jake and the team. The Download Newsletter Never miss a tech story. Get the latest tech news, reviews, and advice from Jake and the team. Subscribe to Lifehacker's Newsletter Loading... Sign Up Success! You’re all signed up. Use this instead By clicking Sign Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . Jake Peterson Senior Technology Editor Covering tech news, how-to guides, explainers, and more. Read Jake's full bio More by Jake Apple 10 Hacks Every MacBook Pro User Should Know July 2, 2026 Tech Don't Get Charged for a Subscription After Preordering 'Grand Theft Auto VI' July 2, 2026 Jake Peterson Senior Technology Editor Covering tech news, how-to guides, explainers, and more. Read Full Bio Latest See More # Strands Today's NYT Strands Hints (and Answer) for Saturday, July 4, 2026 July 4, 2026 Connections Today's NYT Connections Hints (and Answer) for Saturday, July 4, 2026 July 4, 2026 Wordle Today’s Wordle Hints (and Answer) for Saturday, July 4, 2026 July 4, 2026 Lifehacker has been a go-to source of tech help and life advice since 2005. Our mission is to offer reliable tech help and credible, practical, science-based life advice to help you live better. Our Mission Our Team Newsletter Latest Tech Food Entertainment Health Home & Garden Relationships Deals Hacks About Ziff Davis (Opens in a new tab) Privacy Policy Terms of Use Advertise Accessibility Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2001-2026 Ziff Davis, LLC., A ZIFF DAVIS COMPANY. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Lifehacker is a federally registered trademark of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any affiliation or the endorsement of Lifehacker. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant. AdChoices Image AdChoices Better Business Bureau (BBB) Logo TRUSTe Logo Ziffmedia Logo CNET Logo ZDNET Logo PCMag Logo Mashable Logo Askmen Logo ExtremeTech Logo IGN Logo Speedtest Logo Keep Scrolling for Next Article