--- page 1 ---
Home
Tech
Privacy
Privacy
Ring Just Ended Its Controversial Partnership With Flock
Safety
The company says no Ring footage was ever sent to Flock Safety during this time.
 February 13, 2026
Add as a preferred source on Google
Credit: CC Photo Labs/Shutterstock
Jake Peterson
KEY TAKEAWAYS

--- page 2 ---
In a blog post on Friday, Ring announced the end of its partnership with Flock
Safety.
The announcement follows backlash to Ring's "Search Party" Super Bowl ad,
which critics have seen as a slippery slope to infringing user privacy.
Ring says that the Flock Safety integration never went through, so no Ring footage
was ever sent to the organization.
Ring isn't having the week it probably thought it would have. The Amazon-owned company
aired an ad on Super Bowl Sunday for "Search Party," its new feature that turns a
neighborhood's collective Ring cameras into one network, with the goal of locating lost
dogs. Viewers, however, saw this as a major privacy violation—it doesn't take much to
imagine using this type of surveillance tech to locate people, not pets.
The backlash wasn't just isolated to the ad, however. The controversy reignited criticisms of
the company's partnership with Flock Safety, a security company that sells security
cameras that track vehicles, notably for license plate recognition. But the partnership with
Ring wasn't about tracking vehicles: Instead, Flock Safety's role was to make it easier for
law enforcement agencies that use Flock Safety software to request Ring camera footage
from users. Agencies could put in a request to an area where a crime supposedly took
place, and Ring users would be notified about the request. They didn't have to agree to
share footage, however.
Table of Contents

--- page 3 ---
ADVERTISEMENT
Law enforcement could already request footage from Ring users, through the platform's
existing "Community Requests" feature. But this partnership would let agencies make these
requests directly through Flock Safety's software. If a user submitted footage following a
request, Ring said that data would be "securely packaged" by Flock Safety and share to the
agency through FlockOS or Flock Nova.
You May Also Like

--- page 4 ---
Ring cancels its partnership with Flock Safety
That partnership is officially over. On Friday, Ring published a blog post announcing the end
of its relationship with Flock Safety. The company said, after a review, the integration
"would require significantly more time and resources than anticipated." As such, both
parties have agree to cancel the partnership.
Importantly, Ring says that since the integration never actually launched, no user footage
was ever sent to Flock Safety—despite the company announcing the partnership four
months ago. Social media influencers had spread the false claim that Flock Safety was
seeding Ring footage directly to law enforcement agencies, such as ICE. While those claims
are inaccurate, they were likely fueled by reporting from 404 Media that ICE has been able
to access Flock Safety's data in its investigations. Had Ring's partnership with Flock Safety
gone ahead, there would be legitimate cause to believe that agencies like ICE could tap into
the footage Ring users had shared—even if those users were under the impression they
were only sharing footage with local agencies to solve specific cases.
While privacy advocates will likely celebrate this news, the cancelled partnership has no
effect on Community Requests. Law enforcement agencies will still be able to request
footage from Ring users, and those users will still have a say in whether or not they send
that footage. Ring sees the feature as an objective good, allowing users to voluntarily share
footage that could help law enforcement solve important cases. In its announcement on
Friday, Ring cited the December 2025 Brown University shooting, in which seven users
shared 168 video clips with law enforcement. According to Ring, one of those videos
assisted police in identifying the suspect's car, which, in turn, solved the case.
What do you think so far? Be the first to post a comment.

--- page 5 ---
The Download Newsletter
Never miss a tech story
S E N I O R  T E C H  E D I T O R
Get the latest tech news, reviews, and advice from Jake and the team.
Enter Email
ADVERTISEMENT
Jake Peterson
Sign Up

--- page 6 ---
By clicking Sign Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.
MORE BY JAKE
APPLE
10 Hacks Every MacBook Pro User Should Know
 July 2, 2026
TECH
Don't Get Charged for a Subscription After Preordering 'Grand Theft Auto VI'
 July 2, 2026
Jake Peterson
Senior Technology Editor
Covering tech news, how-to guides, explainers, and more.
Read Jake's full bio

--- page 7 ---
ADVERTISEMENT
Lifehacker has been a go-to source of tech help and life advice since 2005. Our mission is to offer
reliable tech help and credible, practical, science-based life advice to help you live better.
OUR MISSION
OUR TEAM
NEWSLETTER
LATEST
TECH
FOOD
ENTERTAINMENT
HEALTH
HOME & GARDEN
RELATIONSHIPS
DEALS
HACKS

--- page 8 ---
About Ziff Davis
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertise
Accessibility
Do Not Sell My
Personal Information
© 2001-2026 Ziff Davis, LLC., A ZIFF DAVIS COMPANY. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Lifehacker is a federally registered trademark of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without explicit
permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any
affiliation or the endorsement of Lifehacker. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be
paid a fee by that merchant.
 AdChoices