--- page 1 ---
County Government Center 
500 County Center, 5th Floor 
Redwood City, CA 94063 
650-363-4571 T 
 
www.smcgov.org  
 
Jackie Speier 
County Supervisor  
 
 
 
 
August 19, 2026 
 
Sheriff Kenneth Binder 
330 Bradford St.,  
Redwood City, CA 94063 
(via email) 
 
Dear Sheriff Binder, 
 
I have reviewed the Civil Grand Jury's report released August 3, 2026, entitled "Is Our Flock of ALPR 
Cameras Properly Tended?"  Given my ongoing concerns about the county's Flock contract and controls over 
Flock data, I look forward to your response to the grand jury's findings and recommendations. 
 
In the meantime, I have a few additional questions for you: 
1. When my staff met with Assistant Sheriff Mark Myers this past April, he kindly explained the state 
of Flock auditing at that time.  It appears that much of the auditing function was manual, which is 
not ideal over the enormous amount of data involved.  Assistant Sheriff Myers further explained that 
a new AI audit assistance program would soon be tested and possibly implemented, and that it would 
more efficiently show who outside of the county accesses county data, and the details of any sharing 
that originates within the county.   
a. 
Is your office using the new AI audit assistance program now?  If so, what is your assessment 
of its capabilities? 
b. 
How often do you conduct audits, and what do you seek to determine from the audits?  Are you 
obtaining the information you seek from the audits? 
c. 
Have any audits conducted this calendar year revealed unauthorized access or unauthorized 
sharing of the County's Flock data? 
2. Redwood City and Stanford are the most recent local examples of entities determining not to 
continue their Flock contracts.   I understand that the decision to cease operations with Flock was not 
necessarily due to proof of unauthorized sharing, but due to discomfort with its lack of controls and 
mistrust over its data classification and permissions, which errors could allow for unauthorized 
access or sharing.  These localities are exploring other providers of license place readers. As the 
contract terminates in two years, are you exploring other vendors for the future? 
 
I look forward to your response. 
 
Respectfully, 
 
 
Jackie Speier 
Supervisor