--- page 1 ---
Superior Court of California, County of San Mateo 
Hall of Justice and Records 
400 County Center 
Redwood City, CA 94063-1655 
 
JENIFFER ALCANTARA 
INTERIM COURT EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
CLERK & JURY COMMISSIONER 
 
 
 
(650) 261-5066 
www.sanmateocourt.org 
VIA E-MAIL: kbinder@smcgov.org  
 
August 3, 2026 
 
Re:  San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury Report – “ Is Our Flock of ALPR Cameras Properly Tended?” 
 
Dear Sheriff Binder: 
 
The 2025-2026 Civil Grand Jury has publicly released a report on August 3, 2026 which contains findings 
and recommendations pertaining to your agency.  Your agency must submit comments, within 60 days, to 
the Honorable Rachel Holt.  Your agency’s response is due no later than October 2, 2026.  Please note 
that the response should indicate that it was approved by your governing body at a public meeting.  
 
For all findings, your responding agency shall indicate one of the following: 
 
1. The respondent agrees with the finding. 
 
2. The respondent disagrees wholly or partially with the finding, in which case the response shall 
specify the portion of the finding that is disputed and shall include an explanation of the 
reasons, therefor. 
 
Additionally, as to the Civil Grand Jury recommendations, your responding agency must report one 
of the following actions by responding in one of the specified manners indicated below: 
 
1. 
The recommendation has been implemented, with a summary regarding the implemented 
action. 
 
2. 
The recommendation has not yet been implemented, but will be implemented in the future, 
with a time frame for implementation. 
 
3. 
The recommendation requires further analysis, with an explanation and the scope and 
parameters of an analysis or study, and a time frame for the matter to be prepared for 
discussion by the officer or director of the agency or department being investigated or 
reviewed, including the governing body of the public agency when applicable.  This time 
frame shall not exceed six months from the date of publication of the Grand Jury report. 
 
4. 
The recommendation will not be implemented because it is not warranted or reasonable, with 
an explanation, therefor.

--- page 2 ---
2
Please submit your responses in all of the following ways: 
 
1. Responses to be placed on file with the Clerk of the Court by the Court Executive Office. 
 
• 
Prepare original on your agency’s letterhead, indicate the date of the public meeting 
that your governing body approved the response address and mail to: 
 
Hon.  Rachel Holt 
Judge of the Superior Court 
c/o Jenarda Dubois 
Hall of Justice 
400 County Center; 8th Floor 
Redwood City, CA   94063-1655. 
 
2. Responses to be placed at the Grand Jury website. 
 
• 
Copy response and send by e-mail to:  grandjury@sanmateocourt.org.  (Insert agency 
name if it is not indicated at the top of your response.) 
 
3. Responses to be placed with the clerk of your agency. 
 
• 
File a copy of the response directly with the clerk of your agency.  Do not send this 
copy to the Court. 
 
For up to 45 days after the end of the term, the foreperson and the foreperson’s designees are available to 
clarify the recommendations of the report.  To reach the foreperson, please email 
mkovalich@smcivilgrandjury.org. 
 
If you wish to receive a hardcopy of this report, kindly email your request to 
grandjury@sanmateocourt.org and one will be mailed to you accordingly. 
 
 
 
 
If you have any questions regarding these procedures, please do not hesitate to contact David Silberman, 
County Attorney at ablum1@smcgov.org. 
 
 
Cordially, 
 
 
 
Jeniffer Alcantara 
Interim Court Executive Officer 
 
 
Enclosure 
 
cc: 
Hon. Rachel Holt 
 
Aaron Blum