--- page 1 ---
https://www.koamnewsnow.com/news/top-stories/seneca-police-end-flock-camera-contract-after-less-
than-90-days/article_d493c47c-a4ab-4270-83c9-f52e784b24ea.html
Seneca police end Flock camera contract after less than
90 days
Kenny Forman
Feb 19, 2026
SENECA, MO. - (KOAM) — The Seneca Police Department has ended its contract with Flock
license plate readers after operating the surveillance cameras for less than 90 days, citing
poor customer service and security concerns.
Police Chief James Altic made the decision to remove two cameras that were installed in mid-
October 2025, roughly three months after the department signed the contract in February
2025.
"We need full answers," said Altic. "These cameras cannot be compromised. And until we are
100% sure they can't be compromised, we're not going to be a part of the system."
The department's experience with Flock began when Chief Altic noticed the rising popularity
of the license plate reading technology and thought it could provide a useful tool for his
department. However, problems emerged almost immediately after installation.
One of the two cameras never functioned properly, according to Altic. The malfunctioning
equipment was consistently marked with service tickets, but the department struggled to
get assistance from Flock's customer service team.
"We couldn't get calls back," he said. "We couldn't get any feedback. It just wasn't working
out real well. There was always a ticket attached to it for service. It was it was a little bit
rough, and nobody would reach back out to us, wouldn't contact us."
Beyond the technical and customer service issues, Chief Altic expressed concerns about
reports of camera misuse throughout the country. These reports reinforced his decision to
discontinue the program.

--- page 2 ---
Kenny Forman
"There will have to be some legislation passed," he said. "There should have to be some
better guidelines down the road. We do not want to be put in a position where there could
possibly be anybody in the area that could get these cameras compromised."
Chief Altic stated he has no plans to bring similar license plate reading technology to Seneca
unless companies can adequately address issues and concerns. He maintains that during
the brief time the cameras were operational, he had no knowledge of any misuse within his
department.
COPYRIGHT 2025 BY KOAM NEWS NOW. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. THIS MATERIAL MAY NOT BE PUBLISHED,
BROADCAST, REWRITTEN OR REDISTRIBUTED.