Seneca police end Flock camera contract after less than 90 days | Top Stories | koamnewsnow.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Site search Search Home About Us Contact Us Meet the Team Email & Alerts Apps Join KOAM Team Find Local Jobs Programming News Morning Show Joplin News First 4-States In Depth National & World Politics Elections Election Results Money Health Medically Speaking Education Weather Forecast Radar Alerts Weather Resources Closings Sky Cams Water Levels Weather Call Sports Pigskin Preview Live Scoreboard Pro Sports MLB Baseball Schedule High School Sports College Sports Obituaries Community Events Toybox Feed the Four States Welcome Home Flag Swap Submit Photos / Videos 4-State Heroes Birthdays Contests Lifestyle Pets Mr. Food Food News Technology Entertainment Santa Tracker Watch Ways to Watch KOAM Presents Programming Advertise Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Breaking: Menu 65° Site search Search Joplin Radar Forecast 11 AM 70°F 2 PM 74°F 5 PM 72°F Pittsburg Radar Forecast 11 AM 68°F 2 PM 74°F 5 PM 72°F News Weather Sports Community Obituaries Watch KOAM+ 24/7 News Live updates all day, breaking news as it happens and weather every 10 minutes Resize: × Latest Videos UT: DRY FARMING COULD HELP BEAT THE DROUGHT Coachlight RV FSF 7AM Newscast-May 8, 2026 Seneca police end Flock camera contract after less than 90 days Kenny Forman Kenny Forman Author email Feb 19, 2026 Feb 19, 2026 Updated Feb 20, 2026 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save SENECA, MO. - (KOAM) — The Seneca Police Department has ended its contract with Flock license plate readers after operating the surveillance cameras for less than 90 days, citing poor customer service and security concerns. Police Chief James Altic made the decision to remove two cameras that were installed in mid-October 2025, roughly three months after the department signed the contract in February 2025. "We need full answers," said Altic. "These cameras cannot be compromised. And until we are 100% sure they can't be compromised, we're not going to be a part of the system." The department's experience with Flock began when Chief Altic noticed the rising popularity of the license plate reading technology and thought it could provide a useful tool for his department. However, problems emerged almost immediately after installation. One of the two cameras never functioned properly, according to Altic. The malfunctioning equipment was consistently marked with service tickets, but the department struggled to get assistance from Flock's customer service team. "We couldn't get calls back," he said. "We couldn't get any feedback. It just wasn't working out real well. There was always a ticket attached to it for service. It was it was a little bit rough, and nobody would reach back out to us, wouldn't contact us." Beyond the technical and customer service issues, Chief Altic expressed concerns about reports of camera misuse throughout the country. These reports reinforced his decision to discontinue the program. "There will have to be some legislation passed," he said. "There should have to be some better guidelines down the road. We do not want to be put in a position where there could possibly be anybody in the area that could get these cameras compromised." Chief Altic stated he has no plans to bring similar license plate reading technology to Seneca unless companies can adequately address issues and concerns. He maintains that during the brief time the cameras were operational, he had no knowledge of any misuse within his department. COPYRIGHT 2025 BY KOAM NEWS NOW. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. THIS MATERIAL MAY NOT BE PUBLISHED, BROADCAST, REWRITTEN OR REDISTRIBUTED. Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Kenny Forman Author email Follow Kenny Forman Most Popular Spring Carnival at Joplin's Northpark Mall Former Erie city clerk faces 10 felony charges in theft investigation Stormy Friday Brings Half‑Dollar Hail, 60 mph Gusts, and a Cooldown for the Weekend Vehicle crashes through front glass, into Ozark Athletic Supply in Joplin Neosho County considers data center moratorium after consulting with development experts Latest News Buckle up for Memorial Day weekend: “click it or ticket” Neosho Valley Spring Art Exhibit opens at Chanute Art Gallery McDonald County High School band to host mattress fundraiser A piece of Route 66 history is now on display in Carthage Route 66 centennial brings tourism boom to Carthage More News TOP VIDEOS Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube TikTok Instagram Live TV Watch Now! View Archive Services Advertise Email Alerts Submission Forms Events Contests Search Sections News Weather Sports Obituaries Community Lifestyle Watch × Browser Compatibility Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks. We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Microsoft Edge Google Chrome Firefox © Copyright 2026 KOAM - KOAMNewsNow.com 2950 NE Highway 69, Galena, KS | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info Your California Privacy Rights | Advertise | EEO and Public Files | FCC Applications