source: packet.pdf
sha256: 542470629804c30cdc9284c2179191e02417102536b69ee136bf010b038c11dc
pages: 153
ocr_pages: 20
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission
May 11, 2021
7:00 PM
REMOTE
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Ellen Mallory, Chair
Ramiro Maldonado, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Mike Etheridge
Margaret Williams
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
PURSUANT TO AUTHORIZATION FROM
GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: May 11, 2021 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: 408-638-0968
Enter Conference ID: 852 9840 2402 Passcode: 972194
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge Allegiance
Roll Call
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's jurisdiction
that are not on the agenda. Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of 15 minutes
for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's jurisdiction. The
Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the agenda, but shall
refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 of the San Mateo
Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those issues raised at the
public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing. Some public
hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
1.
Kiku Crossing and Parking Garage - Site Plan and Architectural Review Modification (PA-2021-013)
Recommend City Council adoption of a Resolution approving the Site Plan and Architectural Review Modification,
including revised and additional Conditions of Approval, to the multi-family residential building located at 480 E.
4th Avenue and to the parking garage located at 400 E. 5th Avenue.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT

--- page 2 ---
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting
and can be viewed on the City’s website at www.cityofsanmateo.org.
Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: there are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you will be added to the meeting. All attendees are
muted by default. To speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638- 0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of meeting agenda.
To indicate you want to provide public comment, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations
to participate in this meeting may contact the Planning Division at planning@cityofsanmateo.org or (650) 522-7212 .
Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 21-4543
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Julia Klein, Acting Planning Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
May 11, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Kiku Crossing and Parking Garage - Site Plan and Architectural Review Modification (PA-2021-013)
RECOMMENDATION:
Recommend City Council adoption of a Resolution approving the Site Plan and Architectural Review Modification, including 
revised and additional Conditions of Approval, to the multi-family residential building located at 480 E. 4th Avenue and to 
the parking garage located at 400 E. 5th Avenue. 
BACKGROUND:
On August 17, 2020, the City Council approved the Planning Application for the City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing 
and Parking Garage Sites Project (PA-2019-033), now formally known as Kiku Crossing. The project includes the 
redevelopment of two City-owned sites into an affordable multifamily residential building located at 480 E. 4th Avenue 
and a separate five-level private and public parking garage on 400 E. 5th Avenue. 
In preparation for building permit submittal, the applicant (MidPen Housing) identified site constraints that necessitate 
design modifications to avoid conflicts with existing and proposed utilities and to ensure adherence to MidPen Housing’s 
design standards in response to best practices and affordable housing financing requirements. 
This Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) Modification (PA-2021-013) is scheduled to go before the City Council on 
May 17, 2021, for formal review and entitlement. The draft Resolution is included as Attachment 1. 
Proposed Site/Building Modifications
The applicant proposes several modifications to the approved design which are summarized in the subsections below. The 
changes primarily affect the building setbacks, floor area and floor plan program, design of the exterior elevations, 
landscaping and open space design of the residential building, and the exterior façade panel treatment of the parking 
garage. The project design team provided a comprehensive list and description of the proposed changes in a Project 
Description Letter (Attachment 2), and a Factual Data Sheet showing applicable development standards (Attachment 3). 
Building Setbacks
The applicant proposes to increase the multi-family residential building’s setbacks from the property lines along all four 
sides of the lot to avoid conflicts with various utilities. This modification would provide necessary clearance from overhead 
high voltage power lines along 4th Avenue and accommodate the proposed underground utilities within the landscaped 
perimeter area along 5th Avenue. This also allows additional landscaped area, increased ground level decks along S. 
Claremont Street, and a deeper landscaped buffer between the railroad tracks along South Railroad Avenue.
Building Floor Area and Floor Plan Changes
The applicant proposes to reduce the multi-family residential building’s total floor area from 234,350 square feet (sq. ft.)

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
to 211,970 sq. ft. across seven-stories as a result of the increase in building setbacks and changes to the floor plan 
program. The average dwelling unit size would also decrease from approximately 820 sq. ft. to 680 sq. ft. as a result of the 
changes to the total floor area. All three-bedroom unit floor plans have been modified to replace the second full bathroom 
in each unit with half bathrooms. The bedroom unit mix has been slightly modified as described in the table provided 
below. The total number of dwelling units for the project remains the same at 225. 
KIKU CROSSING BEDROOM UNIT MIX
As Approved (PA-2019-033)
As Proposed (PA-2021-013)
Bedroom Type
Unit Count
Unit Count
Studios
65
66
One-Bedroom
48
41
Two-Bedroom
53
59
Three-Bedroom
59
59
Total Units
225
225
Additionally, the fitness room and associated bathrooms have been removed from the seventh floor due to noise concerns 
for the residential units located below. 
Exterior Design Changes to the Residential Building
The applicant proposes to modify the exterior materials and windows to align with the wall articulation changes as a result 
of the revised building setbacks. The proposed exterior redesign utilizes the same finish material palette as the originally 
approved project. 
The residential structure maintains the approved maximum building height of 74’-5” as measured to top of plate. 
However, the building’s overall parapet height is proposed to increase by approximately 3 feet to meet the Occupational 
Safety and Health Administration’s (OSHA) fall protection requirements, which would not have been met by the original 
proposal. The proposed increase in parapet height would result in an overall maximum height of 82’-5”, as measured to 
the top of parapet.  
The applicant has also addressed the building’s cornice design treatment in response to comments received by the 
Planning Commission during its review of the original entitlement. The revised cornice design features a more robust and 
contemporary metal frame that compliments the roof trellis, “Juliet” balconies, and lower-level balconies. It should be 
noted the design of the cornice is governed in part by the City’s requirement that it does not extend past property lines 
and OSHA’s required 10-foot clearance between window washing equipment and the high voltage line overhead along 4th 
Avenue. 
Landscaping and Open Space Design
The proposed changes include a reduction of one street tree on S. Claremont Avenue to provide the required clearance for 
transformers.  The location of on-site trees has been adjusted to avoid conflicts with underground utilities, and the 
proposed number of on-site trees is increased from 30 to 35 trees. The noted increases to the building setbacks provide 
increased areas of landscaped open space around the perimeter of the residential building.  
The outdoor plaza and courtyard’s concrete paving and score pattern have been revised to mimic a Japanese textile floral 
pattern in keeping with the Kiku Crossing name. Kiku is a chrysanthemum flower, and the project name celebrates the past 
Japanese American floral industries that flourished during the 1900s.
Exterior Design Changes to the Parking Garage
The public art for the project consists of images printed on façade screen panels on the exterior of the garage. In response 
to concerns raised by the City regarding public access to the back of the panels from within the 5th Avenue parking garage, 
the applicant proposes to install walls behind each panel. This would limit panel access and the potential for vandalism 
such as graffiti or screen damage. One of the garage’s four panels located near the far interior end (east) of the lot along 
the railroad tracks is proposed for removal. Panel removal is required to maintain non-mechanical ventilation thresholds

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
necessary to avoid mechanically ventilating the garage structure, which would significantly increase the long-term 
operational costs of the structure. The vertical fins featured on the columns of the garage will be used to fill the space 
where the removed panel was originally proposed. Additionally, the panel near the stairwell and elevator along 5th 
Avenue would be raised to commence at the second level to minimize vandalism risk at the ground-level. 
A comparative plan set (approved vs. proposed design) is included in Attachment 4.
Design Review
The proposed design changes were formally reviewed by the City’s design review consultant, Larry Cannon of Cannon 
Design Group. Mr. Cannon reviewed the proposed modifications comparatively to the approved design, including his 
review of the updated cornice design feature, and changes to the parking garage façade panel treatment. Mr. Cannon’s 
review letter of April 6, 2021 had no recommended changes but did recommend the applicant consider alternative cornice 
designs. The review letter also concluded the changes to the exterior of the parking garage would not significantly alter its 
appearance. Mr. Cannon’s design review letter has been included as Attachment 5.
Staff believes the proposed modifications are consistent with the original findings of consistency with applicable policies 
and code requirements, and the proposed overall design aesthetic is in keeping with the originally approved design intent. 
Additionally, the updated cornice design appears to adequately respond to the Planning Commission’s guidance to provide 
a cornice of more robust design for added dimensionality. 
Amended Conditions of Approval and Additional Conditions of Approval 
Amendments are proposed to Conditions of Approval numbers 78, 81, 82 and 83, approved under PA-2019-013, to clarify 
that payment of each respective development impact fee is due prior to final inspection or the date the certificate of 
occupancy is issued, whichever occurs first per the terms for the adopted Disposition, Development, and Loan Agreement 
(DDLA). Condition of Approval number 53 is amended to accurately reflect the correct sewer lateral specifications (number 
and size) of the redesigned residential building. Finally, Condition of Approval number 25 is amended to specify the total 
number of existing public parking spaces the applicant is to replace and establish a cap for the total number of additional 
parking spaces it is to provide, consistent with the terms adopted in the DDLA. 
The proposed project modifications include Additional Conditions of Approval from both the Parks and Recreation 
Department and Public Works Department. Conditions of Approval numbers 1 and 2 are standard conditions of the Parks 
and Recreation Department requiring the previously approved arborist report/tree protection plan and measures be 
reflected on the project plans submitted for building permit. Public Works Department Condition of Approval number 3 
requires the applicant show compliance on the plans submitted for building permit: the required clearances between 
existing utilities and utility boxes, and utility boxes out of the public right-of-way to the maximum extent feasible. In 
addition, the condition requires a licensed surveyor to prepare the plat and legal descriptions for any required easements 
for the proposed utility boxes within the parcels for review and approval. 
Staff recommends the Planning Commission recommend approval of two documents – the revised conditions of approval 
and the additional conditions of approval.  Both documents are exhibits to the resolution for adoption. The Amended 
Conditions of Approval and Additional Conditions of Approval are included as Exhibit A and B in the draft Resolution 
(Attachment 1). The amended Conditions showing edits is attached for reference (Attachment 6).
Density Bonus Letter Amendments
MidPen Housing has amended Concessions #1 – Floor Area Ratio and #4 – Open Space of the approved Density Bonus 
Request letter to accurately reflect the changes to floor area and total open space provision as a result of the proposed 
design modifications. Similarly, Waiver #1 – Bulk was amended to indicate the building dimensions of the revised building 
design. In addition, minor changes were made to the affordability mix in order to accommodate requirements from the 
project financing sources. Additional minor edits were made to the narrative text of the letter to provide added clarity. The 
DDLA will be amended later this year to reflect the changes to the affordability mix as approved in the Density Bonus 
Letter. The amended Density Bonus Request letter is included as Attachment 7.

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
The proposed design modifications to the residential building and parking garage will not impact the financial terms of this 
public-private development project and therefore there is no net budget impact. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The City prepared an Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration (IS/MND), adopted by the City Council on August 17,
2020, as part of PA-2019-033. The IS/MND concluded the project would not have significant effects to the environment 
with the implementation of mitigation measures. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines Section 15162 
specifies that when a negative declaration has been adopted for a project, no subsequent formal environmental analysis 
shall be prepared for that project unless the lead agency determines, on the basis of substantial evidence in the light of the 
whole record, implicate any of the factors outlined in CEQA Guidelines Section 15162. 
The scope of work proposed under PA-2021-013 SPAR Modification includes a reduction to the residential building’s total 
floor area, changes to the building footprint and floor plan program, minor exterior elevation and finish material changes, 
increases to open space and landscaped areas, and changes to the exterior elevations of the parking garage as described in 
this report. The proposed modifications do not substantially change the information or conclusions in the adopted IS/MND 
nor implicate any of the factors in CEQA Guidelines Section 15162, as:
(1) No substantial changes are proposed in the project which will require major revisions of the previous EIR or 
negative declaration due to the involvement of new significant environmental effects or a substantial increase in 
the severity of previously identified significant effects;
(2) No substantial changes occur with respect to the circumstances under which the project is undertaken which will 
require major revisions of the previous EIR or Negative Declaration due to the involvement of new significant 
environmental effects or a substantial increase in the severity of previously identified significant effects; or 
(3) No new information of substantial importance, which was not known and could not have been known with the 
exercise of reasonable diligence at the time the previous EIR was certified as complete or the Negative Declaration 
was adopted, shows any of the following factors described CEQA Guidelines Section 15162 (3)(A-D).
As such, the City has determined that none of the circumstances requiring preparation of a subsequent EIR or require a 
major revision to the adopted IS/MND are present for the subject SPAR modification and, therefore, no additional CEQA 
review is required. 
PUBLIC COMMENTS
No public comments were submitted at the time of publishing this report.
NOTICE PROVIDED
In accordance with Government Code section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, this item was
noticed to the following parties ten days in advance of the Planning Commission meeting:

Published in the San Mateo Daily Journal on April 30, 2021

Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site;

The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects;

The interested parties list which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Resolution
Exhibit A – Amended Conditions of Approval

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Exhibit B – Additional Conditions of Approval 
Att 2 – Project Description Letter
Att 3 – Factual Data Sheet
Att 4 – Comparative Plan Set (Approved vs. Proposed)
Att 5 – Cannon Design Group’s Design Review Letter 
Att 6 – Amended Conditions of Approval (track changes)
Att 7 – Amended Density Bonus Request Letter (track changes)
STAFF CONTACT
Phillip Brennan, AICP, Associate Planner
pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7218

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ 2021 
APPROVING THE PROPOSED SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW MODIFICATIONS (PA-2021-013) TO THE 
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDING LOCATED AT 480 E. 4TH AVENUE (KIKU CROSSING) AND  THE PARKING 
GARAGE LOCATED AT 400 E. 5TH AVENUE APPROVED AS PART OF THE CITY-OWNED DOWNTOWN 
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND PARKING GARAGE SITES PROJECT (PA-2019-033)  
WHEREAS, on August 17, 2020, the City-owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Garage Sites project 
(PA-2019-033) was approved with Resolution No. 93 (2020), and as modified via Site Plan and Architectural 
Review Modifications (PA-2020-055) on November 16, 2020, the City and MP Downtown Associates L.P. (the 
“Developer”) have subsequently proposed Site Plan and Architectural Review Modifications (PA-2021-013) to 
the approved design of the multi-family residential building located 480 E. 4th Avenue and to the parking garage 
located at 400 E. 5th Avenue; and   
WHEREAS, the City and the Developer desire for the Developer to construct a seven-story multi-family 
residential building located at 480 E. 4th Avenue and parking garage located on 400 E. 5th Avenue, and a 
pedestrian bridge connecting to the residential building to be constructed at 480 E. 4th Avenue over the 
adjacent public street (E. 5th Avenue); and 
WHEREAS, the proposed modifications are consistent with the required Site Plan and Architectural 
Review (SPAR) Findings for Approval approved under PA-2019-033; and  
WHEREAS, pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines Section 15162, the 
proposed modifications to the approved site design do not substantially change the information or conclusions 
of the Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration (IS/MND) adopted by the City Council on August 17, 2020, 
and therefore, no additional CEQA review is required; and  
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission, held a duly noticed public hearing on the proposed SPAR 
modification at their May 11, 2021, meeting and recommended approval to the City Council; 
WHEREAS, all applicable Conditions of Approval have been attached as Exhibit A and Exhibit B; and 
WHEREAS, as Exhibit A consists of PA-2019-033 Amended Conditions of Approval, as modified by 
PA-2020-055 and PA-2021-013, and Exhibit B consists of new PA-2021-013 Additional Conditions of Approval. 
WHEREAS, the City Council held a duly noticed public hearing on the Project on May 17, 2021; 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, RESOLVES that: 
1.
Subject to the conditions of approval described in Section 2, the City Council approves PA-2021-013
pursuant to the project plans approved by the City Council on May 17, 2021, and described below:
a.
Reduction in total floor area of the multi-family residential building from 234,350 sq. ft. to
211,970 sq. ft., including changes to the floor plan program and bedroom unit mix.
b.
Modifications to the residential building’s footprint layout and increased setbacks from all
four property lines.

--- page 9 ---
c. Changes to the exterior elevations including parapet height, finish material layout and 
window programming of the residential building. 
d. A redesign of the cornice element on the residential building. 
e. Adjustment to the approved tree planting schedule; street tree count decreased from 11 to 
10 trees; onsite tree count on the residential building parcel increased from 30 to 35 trees. 
f. A 6’ tall plexiglass screening element added to the seventh-floor roof deck of the residential 
building for sound attenuation. 
g. Modifications to the exterior façade panels, including removing one of four panels and 
ending the panel located near the stairwell and elevator along 5th Avenue at the second-
floor.  
h. Minor changes to the hardscape design of the plaza and courtyard, and landscape 
adjustments in coordination with the building footprint and setback changes.  
i. 
Minor increase to the provision of common open space.  
2. The City Council adopts the Amended Conditions of Approval and the Additional Conditions of 
Approval described in the administrative report reviewed by City Council on May 17, 2021, attached 
as Exhibit A and Exhibit B, respectively, to this Resolution.

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO PLANNING APPLICATION  
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
PA-2019-033, CITY-OWNED DOWNTOWN AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND PARKING GARAGE SITES, 
SPAR (2) + SDPA + SUP 
 
480 E 4TH AVE B, SAN MATEO, CA 94401-3349; 400 E 5TH AVE, SAN MATEO, CA; 480 E 4TH AVE 
A, SAN MATEO, CA 94401-3349 
PARCEL # 034183060, 033281140 
AS APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL ON 
AUGUST 17, 2020, AND MODIFIED ON 
NOVEMBER 16, 2020 AND MAY 17, 2021 
 
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of  
approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance.  
Additional language within a condition may further define the timing of required compliance. 
 
The following conditions shall be addressed on the construction plans submitted for any 
DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING PERMIT, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, and shall be 
satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit is issued first, or if another deadline is 
specified in a condition, at that time. 
Building Division (PA) 
1 SITE SURVEY – The applicant shall provide a site survey of entire parcel stamped 
and signed by a Land Surveyor licensed by the State of California. The survey shall 
include, but not be limited to, the following: location and dimensions of property 
line, location of streets and easements, existing buildings, topographic contour 
lines, trees/landscape, miscellaneous structures, etc. The purpose of the site 
survey is to accurately verify compliance with items such as setback dimensions, 
heights of buildings from established contours, compliance with heritage tree 
ordinance, etc. (BUILDING) 
2 CALGREEN – The buildings shall be designed to include the green building 
measures specified as mandatory in the application checklists contained in the 
California Green Building Standards Code. The applicant shall incorporate the 
checklist along with a notation on the checklist to specify where the information 
can be located on the plans, details, or specifications, etc. (BUILDING) 
3 * MM NOI-1.1 - Prior to issuance of building permits, mechanical equipment shall 
be selected and designed to reduce impacts on surrounding uses, in conformance 
with the City’s requirements. A qualified acoustical consultant shall be retained  
by the project applicant to review mechanical noise as the equipment systems are 
selected in order to determine specific noise reduction measures necessary to 
reduce noise to comply with the noise limit of 55 dBA L50 or less at residential 
property lines, and 60 dBA L50 or less at commercial property lines. Noise 
reduction measures could include, but are not limited to the following: 
• Selection of equipment that emits low noise levels; 
• Installation of additional noise barriers such as enclosures, and; 
EXHIBIT A

--- page 11 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 2 of 43 
 
 
• Increased height screening walls to block the line of sight between the noise 
source and the nearest receptors. (BUILDING) 
4 * MM NOI-2.1: The project applicant shall incorporate the following mitigation 
measures into the proposed project (parking garage) to reduce construction 
vibration impacts to a less than significant level. 
• Prior to the issuance of a grading permit, the project applicant shall submit a 
Construction Vibration Monitoring and Control Plan (Plan) prepared by an 
acoustical/vibration consultant, structural engineer or other appropriately 
qualified professional. 
• The Plan shall identify protocols for project construction activities to maintain 
vibration levels at or below the potential for building damage threshold. The 
protocols could include continuous vibration monitoring during the phases of 
construction most likely to generate high vibration levels such as excavation and 
foundation phases. 
• A pre-construction survey of the storage building along the project garage’s 
property line shall also be conducted. The survey shall include photo or video 
documentation. The Plan shall adopt a building damage vibration threshold of 
PPV 0.5 inches per second or identify an alternative threshold as appropriate 
based on the condition of the building and the actual construction 
equipment/activities. 
• Because the construction vibration analysis identifies the potential for 
construction vibration to cause annoyance at the adjacent existing office building 
at 700 S. Claremont St. (i.e. calculated PPV exceeds 0.10 inches per second), the 
Plan shall also identify project construction methods to maintain vibration levels 
below the annoyance threshold. If it is not feasible to limit construction vibration 
level to below the threshold, the Plan shall specify the expected periods that 
could result in annoyance and provide protocols for notifying the owner of the 
office building prior to those activities. (BUILDING) 
5 * MM HAZ-2.1 - .One or more environmental cleanup plan(s) and a model Health 
and Safety Plan (HASP), to be adopted by project contractors, shall be approved 
by an environmental agency of applicable jurisdiction prior to issuance of a 
grading permit for the proposed construction. The environmental cleanup plan(s) 
shall establish the measures to safely remove and or mitigate significant 
environmental health and safety risks (short- and long-term) potentially posed to 
future site users by the presence of hazardous materials in existing fill, 
contaminated groundwater, and soil gas beneath the site. Such environmental

--- page 12 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021   
Page 3 of 43 
 
 
mitigation and or remediation approaches and techniques may include, among 
others, excavation of impacted media for disposal at appropriately permitted 
landfill facilities, engineered barriers to minimize exposure to hazardous 
materials. The environmental cleanup plan shall also include truck routes to avoid 
significant pedestrian, remediation-related truck traffic. 
 
The HASP, which will be adopted and implemented by the general contractor and 
its subcontractors, will be prepared by an appropriately credentialed individual 
and outline proper soil and groundwater handling procedures and other health 
and safety requirements for the protection of workers handling hazardous 
materials in fill and contaminated groundwater during construction. The HASP 
shall be consistent with the worker protection requirements of the Cal/OSHA Title 
8 regulations for the protection of worker safety. The HASP shall also include 
measures and protocols for the protection of the public’s environmental health 
which shall include among others: management of stockpiles and on site soils to 
prevent the mobilization of particulate matter (e.g., through windblown dust, soil 
tracked-out through trucks or other construction vehicles); and retention of 
construction water onsite. 
 
The presence of hazardous materials in fill and contaminated groundwater pose 
soil, soil gas and groundwater management and potential health risks to be 
addressed as part of the Site development activities. The environmental cleanup 
plan(s) and or HASP objectives will be to protect environmental health and safety 
by minimizing exposure to construction workers, nearby residents and/or 
pedestrians, and future Site users to constituents in the soil, soil gas and 
groundwater. (BUILDING) 
6 PRE-CONSTRUCTION CONFERENCE FOR LARGE PROJECTS- A pre-construction 
conference shall be held at a time and location agreed upon by the City and 
applicant for the purpose of reviewing Conditions of Approval and 
construction-site procedures. The applicant shall be represented by his design 
and construction staffs, which include any sub-contractors. Departments having 
conditions of approval for the project will represent the City. This meeting shall 
be held prior to issuance of the Demolition Permit, Building Permit or Site 
Development Permit, and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit 
is issued first. (BUILDING) 
7 DEMOLITION - Demolition permit(s) shall be issued in accordance with Section

--- page 13 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 4 of 43 
 
 
23.06.100 of the San Mateo Municipal Code. Safeguards during construction shall 
be provided in accordance with Chapter 33 of the California Building Code. Prior 
to the permit issuance, a completed Worksheet/Application and a Demolition 
Plan must be submitted and approved by the Building Official. This form is 
available at the Building Division Counter. (BUILDING) 
8 SOILS REPORT – The applicant shall provide a stamped, signed, and dated soil 
investigation report containing design recommendations to the Building Official. 
The classification shall be based on observation and any necessary tests of 
materials disclosed by boring or excavations made in appropriate locations. 
Additional studies may be necessary to evaluate soil strength, the effect of 
moisture variation on soil-bearing capacity, compressibility, liquefaction, 
seismically induced soil liquefaction, soil instability, and expansiveness. 
Additionally, the applicant shall submit a stamped, signed, and dated letter from 
the Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared the soil investigation 
stating the following: 
 
(A) 
The plans and specifications substantially conform to the recommendations 
in the soil investigation. 
 
(B) 
The Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared the soil 
investigation has been retained to provide soil site observation and provide 
periodic and final reports to the City of San Mateo. 
 
Prior to final inspection for any building or structure, the Geotechnical Engineer 
or Civil Engineer who prepared the soil investigation shall issue a final report 
stating the completed pad, foundation, finish grading and associated site work 
substantially conform to the approved plans, specifications and investigations. 
(BUILDING) 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
9 CODE CONFORMANCE - The applicant shall indicate on all building permit plans 
that all construction shall meet current code standards at the time of building 
permit submittal. The building permit plans are subject to review and approval by 
the Fire Marshal or his/her designee prior to issuance of the building permit. 
(FIRE) 
10 SUBMITTALS - The applicant shall submit all fire plans in conjunction with the

--- page 14 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021   
Page 5 of 43 
 
superstructure building permit plans. The plans are subject to review and 
approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her designee prior to issuance of the 
superstructure building permit plans. (FIRE) 
11 FIRE ALARM SYSTEM - Install a fire alarm system per CFC Chapter 9 and complying 
with local amendments. Submit under separate fire plan check and permit. Use 
installation standard NFPA 72. (FIRE) 
12 COMBINATION SPRINKLER/STANDPIPE - Install a combination fire 
sprinkler/standpipe system on each level with 2½” x 1½” reducer caps. Submit 
under separate fire plan check and permit. Use installation standard NFPA 14 and 
local amendments. (FIRE) 
13 KEY SWITCH FOR SECURITY GATES - Installed security gates shall be provided with 
a Fire Department approved lock or key box to allow Fire Department access. The 
minimum width of the gates shall be 15 feet clear width opening. Automatic 
operated gates shall be provided with a means to provide access in the event of 
power loss. Contact the Bureau of Fire Protection and Life Safety for specific 
requirements. (FIRE) 
14 HYDRANT CLEARANCE - Maintain a 3-foot clear space around all fire hydrants and 
accessible. Hydrants shall be installed, tested, flushed and approved by the fire 
department prior to any combustible materials brought onto the work site. (FIRE) 
15 FIRE ASSEMBLIES AND APPLIANCES - The final location of fire service backflow 
preventors, fire department connections and the juncture of fire service lines to 
the water main grid shall be approved by fire and documented on the Fire 
Sprinkler plans. (FIRE) 
16 DRIVEWAY ACCESS: A Fire Department driveway access serving 
dwelling/structures 30 ft or less in height shall have a minimum 20 foot 
unobstructed linear width. A Fire Department driveway access serving 
dwelling/structures over 35 ft in height shall have a minimum 26 foot 
unobstructed linear width. These driveways/access roads shall be designated as 
Fire Lanes with no parking. Driveway /access road shall meet Fire Department 
standards for surface type, distance, weight loads (68,000 LBS), turn radius (inside 
turn radius 33 ft and outside turn diameter of 48 ft), grades, and vertical  
clearance (13ft-6in). The applicant shall provide red curbs, curb lettering or fire 
lane signs in accordance with local amendments. (FIRE) 
17 FIRE FLOW - The project shall meet the fire flow rate and duration requirements 
of the California Fire Code. The fire flow information shall be submitted to the 
Fire Marshall or his/her designee for review and approval prior to the issuance of 
the building permit. (FIRE)

--- page 15 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 6 of 43 
 
 
18 WATER SUPPLY - All city/district owned water systems and on-site water systems 
shall be looped with two points of connection to the satisfaction of the city 
engineer. They shall meet the requirements of State Department of Health 
Services, city Public Works and the Fire Marshal. The water supply information 
shall be submitted to the Fire Marshal or his/her designee for review and 
approval prior to the issuance of the building permit. (FIRE) 
19 PUBLIC HYDRANT - Install public hydrant at 300 ft spacing for commercial, 
industrial, multi-residential and single-family development.  All fire hydrants in 
vicinity to the project site shall be upgraded to a Clow model 960 or equivalent 
consisting of (2) 2½ inch and (1) 4½ inch outlet.  Each hydrant shall be capable of 
providing a minimum fire flow of 1500 gpm at 20 psi residual pressure. Water 
supply for fire protection is required to be installed in accordance with California 
Water Service specifications. The water supply shall be tested, flushed and 
approved operable PRIOR to any combustible construction materials being placed 
on the site. Staged construction shall insure that the necessary water supply is 
maintained from stage to stage in the construction planning. (FIRE) 
20 KEY BOX - Install Knox key box(s) on all buildings to allow for Emergency 
Services/Fire Department accesses. Contact the Bureau of Fire Protection and 
Life Safety for specific requirements and location approval. Provide keys as 
required. (FIRE) 
21 FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM - Install an N.F.P.A. 13 fire sprinkler system complying 
with local amendments. Provide permanent drain to sanitary sewer for all 
sprinkler discharge. Submit under separate fire plan check and permit. Separate 
plan check permit is required for the underground fire service. (FIRE) 
 
Parks and Recreation Department (PA) 
22 INITIAL SITE INSPECTION - Prior to the issuance of any permits, the Project 
Arborist shall email a letter with photos to the Contract Arborist verifying that all 
tree protection measures are properly implemented. Please include the email 
address of the project contact person. The city Contract Arborist will notify the 
Building Division whether or not the letter and photos are acceptable. Email 
address: wfujii@cityofsanmateo.org (PARKS AND RECREATION)

--- page 16 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 7 of 43   
 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
23 TRASH AND RECYCLING ENCLOSURES - All ground level trash and recycling 
enclosures must be screened from public view by a solid wall or solid fence, 
and/or perimeter landscaping. These facilities shall be designed and located as 
delineated on the approved planning application drawings. The building permit 
plans shall show the location and screening of the Enclosure; however; the final 
location and required screening of all Items shall be reviewed and approved by 
the Zoning Administrator before issuance of a certificate of occupancy/final of the 
project. (PLANNING) 
24 CORNICE REDESIGN - The project design team will provide alternative cornice 
design options with the final design to be reviewed and approved by the Zoning 
Administrator. The design shall be more robust in scale and detail to provide 
added dimensionality. (PLANNING) 
25 PARKING GARAGE LAYOUT - To accommodate the final parking garage layout, the 
total number of parking spaces may be reduced by up to 15%, so long as the 
number of accessible parking spaces required by the California Building Code is 
maintained. The applicant shall deliver two hundred and thirty-five (235) parking 
spaces replacing existing public parking spaces and up to two hundred and ninety-
two (292) additional public parking spaces prior to occupancy of the residential 
structure. The final parking layout shall not change the total amount of 
residential designated parking spaces. The final parking layout will be subject to 
review and approval by the City Manager. (PLANNING) 
26 RENT REGULATORY AGREEMENT - Pursuant to Municipal Code Section 27.16.050 
and Resolution 121 (2008), the project shall provide below market rate units in 
conformance with the Disposition, Development and Loan Agreement between 
the City of San Mateo and MP Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P.. (PLANNING) 
27 VECTOR CONTROL PLAN - Prior to the issuance of a Site Development Permit or 
demolition building permit, whichever is issued first, the applicant shall 
implement and conform to, upon review and approval by the Zoning 
Administrator, a plan for the control and removal of rodents and other pests to 
prevent infestation of adjacent land uses and surrounding neighborhoods. This 
plan shall include pest control measures required during all phases of 
construction, and also for a period of six months after the completion of 
construction. (PLANNING) 
28 SCREENING OF ROOFTOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT – All rooftop mechanical 
equipment must be screened by a solid enclosure or parapet wall, in 
conformance with the approved planning application. Rooftop screening shall be 
constructed with the same building materials as the building exterior, or other 
compatible materials as approved by the Chief of Planning and/or Zoning

--- page 17 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 8 of 43 
 
Administrator. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
29 INTERIOR NOISE LEVELS – The project design shall result in a completed project 
that complies with the City’s Noise Goals as enumerated in the Noise Element of 
the General Plan and incorporated here by reference. The applicant shall provide 
an acoustical analysis, by a licensed acoustical consultant, which shall contain 
recommendations to ensure the building’s interior LDN levels are in compliance 
with the levels established in the San Mateo General Plan. A copy of the 
acoustical analysis shall be submitted as part of the building permit drawings for 
this project. The applicant shall submit a letter prepared by the person/firm who 
prepared the acoustical analysis for the project, verifying that all 
recommendations contained in the analysis have been incorporated into the 
construction of the project. The letter shall also verify that the project will comply 
with the noise requirements contained in the City’s General Plan. 
 
• A detailed analysis shall be prepared by a qualified acoustical consultant to 
determine the noise insulation requirements on a unit-by-unit basis to meet the 
interior noise level requirement of an Ldn of 45 dBA or less at the dwelling units. 
The windows and balcony doors in the dwelling units will need to be in the closed 
position to meet the required interior noise level. This closed window condition 
will need to be considered by the Mechanical Engineer in their determination of 
the outdoor air ventilation requirements for the dwelling units. The ventilation 
system must not compromise the noise reduction provided by the window and 
wall assembly. 
 
• The applicant shall consider the potential for sleep and activity interference due 
to single-event noise in the design of the project building. Achieving a single  
event noise goal would likely require window and exterior wall constructions with 
higher sound-ratings than needed to meet the code requirement. In addition, the 
nighttime train and whistle noise shall be disclosed to project residents. 
 
• Analysis of the noise insulation requirements shall be made for the 
nonresidential spaces such that the interior noise levels would meet the CalGreen 
requirement of hourly Leq of 50 dBA. The noise insulation requirements in  
the detailed analysis must be incorporated into the building design. 
 
• The project sponsor shall prepare a design level analysis of the railroad induced  
vibration levels in the project building. The study shall consider structural design 
features such as stiffening the floor constructions to avoid resonant frequencies

--- page 18 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 9 of 43   
 
below 25 Hz. If the study indicates that the FTA criteria will be exceeded the study 
shall identify the areas of the building that are potentially affected. 
 
• The owners shall disclose the potential vibration effects to residents that may 
be affected by train passings. (PLANNING) 
30 RECORDATION OF CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – The applicant shall record the 
final approved planning application conditions of approval document at the San 
Mateo County Recorder’s Office. The applicant shall submit proof of recordation 
in the form of a recorded document that includes a confirmation sticker with the 
recordation evidence.  This document shall be recorded prior to the issuance of 
the demolition permit, building permit, or site development permit, and shall be 
satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit is issued first. (PLANNING) 
31 SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT FOR REMOVAL OF TREES AND TREE 
REPLACEMENT/IN LIEU FEES - The following condition of approval would be 
applied to the proposed project due to the removal of 54 existing trees with 
diameters of greater than six inches (including four Heritage Trees). 
The applicant shall obtain a tree removal permit from the Planning Division for 
removal of existing trees with a diameter of six inches or larger, prior to the 
issuance of a Site Development Permit or demolition building permit, whichever 
is issued first. The applicant shall plant trees on the project site equivalent to the 
Landscape Unit (LU) value of trees to be removed or pay a fee in lieu of planting 
trees at the rate established in the annual Comprehensive Fee Schedule. 
(PLANNING) 
32 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – The applicant shall 
check with the Project Planner to determine whether any outstanding planning 
applications fees exist and those fees shall be paid prior to the issuance of the 
first building permit. (PLANNING) 
33 CONFORMANCE WITH APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION - All building permit 
application plans and details, and subsequent construction shall substantially 
conform with the approved planning application, including: drawings, plans, 
materials samples, building colors, the written project description, and other 
items submitted as part of the approved planning application. No signage is 
approved as part of the planning application; signage is governed by the City’s 
Sign Ordinance. Documentation of any changes to the approved Planning 
Application plan set shall be provided at the time of Building Permit application 
submittal. Any proposed modifications to the approved planning application must 
be reviewed by the Chief of Planning and/or Zoning Administrator. Modifications  
to Building Permit plans must be approved prior to construction of the modified 
improvements. The Chief of Planning and/or Zoning Administrator shall 
determine whether the proposed modifications substantially conform with the

--- page 19 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 10 of 43 
 
approved planning application, or whether a planning application for a 
modification of a previously approved planning application is required to be 
submitted to permit the proposed project modifications, as required by San 
Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications. It is recognized that the 
final layout and design of parking spaces in the parking garage will be refined as 
part of the Building Permit submittal. The final parking layout will be subject to 
review and approval by the City Manager. (PLANNING) 
34 LOCATION AND FULL SCREENING OF ABOVE GROUND UTILITIES, EQUIPMENT, 
AND DEVICES INCLUDING TRANSFORMERS AND BACK FLOW PREVENTORS - All 
ground level utilities, equipment, and other project related operational/utility 
devices (“Items”) shall be shown on the building permit plans, consistent with the 
approved planning application plans. All Items shall be fully screened on all four 
sides from public view by a solid wall or solid wood fence that complies with San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.84 Fences, Trees and Hedges. Landscaping in 
the form of densely planted tall shrubs may be utilized where placement of a 
fence is infeasible, subject to review and determination by the Zoning 
Administrator in the field. These Items shall be setback as far as feasible from 
street frontages and shall be fully screened with landscaping or other screening 
material. The building permit plans shall show the location and screening of these 
items and this condition shall be shall be addressed on the construction plans 
submitted for any demolition permit, building permit, or site development permit 
and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit is issued first; 
however; the final location and required screening of all Items shall be reviewed 
and approved by the Zoning Administrator prior to release of utilities, final 
inspection, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs first 
(PLANNING) 
 
Police Department (PA) 
35 SITE FURNITURE- The building permit application plans shall show permanent site 
furniture accessible to the public designed and installed to prevent an adult from 
laying down by installing arm rests not more than 4' apart, or by designing 
elevation changes 4" or more on horizontal surfaces every 4'. Temporary site 
furniture shall be secured at the close of each business day. (POLICE) 
36 GARAGE EMERGENCY EGRESS PASSAGEWAY - The garage interior exit 
passageway shall be for emergency egress only. The building permit application 
plans shall show doors serving the stairwell feeding into the passageway signed 
and alarmed as emergency exits only. (POLICE) 
37 VIDEO SURVEILLANCE – 
a) The applicant shall install and operate for the life of the project a video 
surveillance system. The information shall be maintained and retrievable for a 
minimum of 30 days. The captured video material shall be accessible to

--- page 20 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 11 of 43   
 
investigating police personnel through some form of facility management during 
regular business hours. The applicant shall provide proof of registration of the 
video surveillance camera system with the City through the City’s Neighborhood 
Eyes Security Team web form (https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/forms.aspx? 
FID=134). 
b) The cameras in this system shall be megapixel or better CCTV cameras that 
shall be capable of operating in all lighting conditions anticipated at the project 
completion. Cameras viewing locations intended to allow vehicle passage into 
the garages and between different uses in the garage shall additionally be 
capable of capturing the front and rear of all entering and exiting vehicles that 
use the garage and be of sufficient quality to identify the make and model of 
vehicles accessing the garage, clearly read both front and rear license plates of 
vehicles, and obtain clear facial recognition through the front windshield. 
c) The building permit application plans shall show cameras placed to view 
common areas of the property such as lobbies; parking garages, entrances and 
exits to all parking garages, and changes in garage uses; parking garage 
emergency egress passageway; driveways; circulation areas; aisles; passageways; 
recesses; and grounds contiguous to all buildings.  This condition is not intended 
to require Applicant to install pole mount cameras on the property, cameras to 
view these areas may be installed on the building facing out. (POLICE) 
38 BUILDING SECURITY CODE COMPLIANCE - The project plans shall comply with the 
City’s Building Security Code (San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.54).  
(POLICE) 
39 POLICE MEMORIAL MAINTENANCE - The streetlight at the northwest corner of 
5th Avenue near S Claremont Street is designated as a police memorial through a 
sign and the light of the luminaire showing blue. This memorial shall be 
maintained, or the applicant shall propose an alternative design that provides a 
sign and blue light, complies with Public Works photometric and through zone 
requirements, and is reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police and City 
Engineer or their designees prior to the issuance of the grading, shoring, or 
superstructure building permit, whichever comes first. (POLICE/PUBLIC WORKS) 
40 STAIRWELL & EXTERIOR DOORS – The building permit application plans shall show 
the maximum allowable viewing panel in egress doors from stairwells and  
exterior doors leading to exterior areas, parking garages, egress passageway, and 
basement levels. (POLICE) 
41 SECURED BUILDING ACCESS BY EMERGENCY PERSONNEL - The building permit 
application plans shall show the detailed specifications for and the installation of 
telephone entry pads (TEPs) and/or wireless “click to enter” systems at the main 
exterior building entrance(s) and parking garage entrance(s) for secured buildings. 
These access systems must allow emergency personnel to access all levels of the

--- page 21 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 12 of 43 
 
interior of the building. The access systems must also be installed at exterior gate 
locations that lead to secured areas of the site, such as interior courtyards. 
Access system placement location is subject to the review and approval of the 
Chief of Police or his/her designee, prior to the approval of the first building 
permit for the project. Police access codes shall be as provided by the Chief of 
Police or his/her designee at the time of installation (POLICE) 
42 PHOTOMETRIC PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENT - The building permit application 
plans shall include a photometric plan showing the installation of lighting fixtures 
and lighting levels to be reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police or his/her 
designee. The photometric plan shall include point-by-point lighting levels in 
foot-candles for the entire plot and ten feet beyond the project property lines. 
The point-by-point photometric plan shall provide lighting levels on a grid not to 
exceed five feet by five feet across the entire site. Each point shall report the 
illuminance to the nearest 0.1 foot-candles. Photometric calculations including 
maximum foot-candles, average foot-candles, minimum foot-candles, average to 
minimum uniformity, and maximum to minimum uniformity shall be included on 
the plan submitted. Select specifications for fixtures selected shall be provided 
on the photometric plan sufficient to ensure compliance with the SITE LIGHTING 
STANDARDS.  (POLICE) 
43 PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS FOR TALL BUILDINGS –The building permit 
application plans shall show compliance with Security Code SMMC “23.54.020 
CITY COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS – HIGH RISE BUILDINGS”, by providing for the 
following allowances for the placement of emergency communications 
equipment on the building permit plans: 
a) Enough enclosed space for the equivalent of one dedicated server rack in a 
locked server room that is clean, dry, and well-ventilated (this does not need to 
be a fire control room); 
b) One 4” conduit from the designated server rack through the roof. The conduit 
shall be provided with wide radius bends, a weatherhead on the roof, and a pull 
string and ring; 
c) Authorization to mount antennas on the roof. The maximum allowable 
distance from the designated server rack to the antenna mounting location shall 
be 100 feet; 
d) One 20 amp, 120 VAC dedicated electrical circuit on the building's emergency 
generator. An uninterruptable power supply (UPS) may be installed by the City if 
the building is not provided with an emergency generator; 
e) 12 copper cable pairs to the building's main telephone terminal; and, 
f) Ground buss bar bonded to the building grounding system. 
This requirement is in addition to the requirement of the California Fire Code to 
supply a functional emergency responder radio coverage system. 
(POLICE)

--- page 22 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 13 of 43   
 
44 PARKING GARAGE SECURITY FOR MIXED USE GARAGES – The building permit 
application plans shall show: 
a) Restricted access to the residential portion of the parking garage with 
electrically operated closures to allow passage of motor vehicles at all times. 
b) The closures, whether overhead, sliding or swinging shall be provided with 
reopening devices which will function to stop and reopen the closure in case the 
closure is obstructed when closing. 
c) Openings into the garage which are not for vehicular or human passage shall be 
provided with security grilles or screens. 
d) Digital keypads and/or wireless “click to enter” systems complying with 
SECURED BUILDING ACCESS BY EMERGENCY PERSONNEL shall be provided to 
allow for entry into all portions of the garage at all times. 
e) If egress doors are required by code to connect garage spaces with different 
uses, the egress doors shall be alarmed and monitored. 
f) Exterior doors or gates providing access into the secure areas of the parking 
garage shall remain locked at all times, and shall only be accessible through the 
use of keys, key fob or remote keyless entry system devices furnished to the 
building residents and shall be equipped with self-closing devices. 
g) All storage, maintenance, and trash rooms within parking garages shall have 
doors which cannot be locked from the inside, and that close and lock quickly and 
automatically upon exit. 
h) Parking spaces shall not be numbered to coincide with interior unit numbers. 
i) Lighting in the parking garage shall be in conformance with the Security 
Ordinance as it applies to SITE LIGHTING. No dark areas shall exist inside the 
parking garage (POLICE) 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
45 STORM DRAIN INLETS AND WATERWAYS - The building permit application plans 
shall show the marking of the words “No Dumping! Flows to Bay,” or equivalent, 
on all storm inlets surrounding and within the project site using methods 
approved by the City standards, consistent with the San Mateo Countywide 
Water Pollution Prevention Program’s C.3 requirements (PUBLIC WORKS) 
46 PERMITS REQUIRED BY OTHER AGENCIES - The applicant is hereby informed that 
permits or agreements may be required by one (1) or more of the following: 
Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board, Corps of Engineers, Bay Conservation and 
Development Commission, Fish and Game, and/or the State Lands Commission. If 
project is within jurisdiction of any of these agencies, verification of permit or 
waiver of permit must be given to the Public Works Department prior to issuance 
of any required City permits. If the City is required to be a party to the permit 
application and a fee is required, the applicant shall reimburse the City for its  
cost. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 23 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 14 of 43 
 
 
47 UTILITY WILL-SERVE LETTERS - The applicant shall provide will-serve letters from 
the various utility companies including, but not limited to, domestic water, 
electric, gas, etc. to ensure adequate service can be provided for the proposed 
development. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
48 EROSION CONTROLS - The project will be required to submit erosion control 
measures including silt fences, fiber rolls, proposed cribbing (retaining walls or 
riprap), terraces, and/or surface protection, required for drainage and erosion 
control of the property per the Municipal Code 23.40.040 (a) as a standard 
condition of approval prior to issuance of a building and/or grading permit, 
subject to review and approval of the Public Works Department. Conformance 
with these measures will reduce soil erosion during construction. The 
applicant will submit an Erosion and Sediment Control Plan (which includes 
erosion control measures), if required by the City Engineer or Building Official. 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
49 SITE REMEDIATION TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT PLAN - The Project Applicant shall 
prepare a Site Remediation Traffic Management Plan (SRTMP) for the transport  
of hazardous materials in the City’s Public Right-of-Way to an off-site disposal 
location, as part of the site remediation process. Prior to the issuance of a 
demolition permit or the first permit, the applicant shall submit a SRTMP, with 
documented approval by the California Department of Toxic Substances Control 
(DTSC), to the City Engineer for review and approval. The SRTMP shall include 
elements for the protection of off-site members of the public, such as: designated 
haul routes for the transport of hazardous materials; temporary traffic control 
devices; travel time restrictions; and other elements as determined by the DTSC  
or the City Engineer. All trucks and drivers transporting hazardous materials shall 
comply with applicable law. The applicant shall obtain all required permits for 
transport of hazardous materials outside of the City’s jurisdiction, as required by 
applicable law. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
50 DRAINAGE - Drainage designed into landscaping with the purpose of reducing 
volume or improving quality of runoff from the site shall be implemented, to 
extent feasible, subject to the approval of the City Engineer. No increase to the 
peak discharge shall be permitted downstream. In addition, discharge must 
conform to any non point source permit issued by the Regional Water Quality 
Control Board. Drainage improvements made on-site shall conform to standard 
engineering practices and shall not allow any site drainage to impact adjacent 
properties. All drainage capacity calculations shall be performed by a licensed 
Civil Engineer, whose signed engineer’s stamp shall appear on the calculations 
sheets, and shall be submitted to the City for review and approval with the 
project civil plans. The applicant shall install bioretention areas and a

--- page 24 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 15 of 43   
 
mechanical filter. For projects that include permanent structural controls for 
water quality protection, the O&M (operation and maintenance) procedures for 
such control features shall be submitted for review and approval prior to 
occupancy and specify the developer or occupant/property manager’s 
responsibility to ensure their ongoing effective operation and maintenance. 
Such O&M responsibility requirements shall be recorded at the County of San 
Mateo Recorder's Office. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
51 POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCB) SCREENING ASSESSMENT FORM - As per 
Stormwater Municipal Regional Permit requirements and City Code Section 
7.39.120, Demolition Permit (DP) Applicants shall complete the PCBs Screening 
Assessment Form as described within the guidelines included within the Building 
Demolition Plan Submittal Checklist. The Form shall be reviewed and approved by 
the City Engineer or his/her designee, prior to issuance of a demolition, site 
development, or building permit, whichever occurs first. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
52 INTERIOR FLOOR DRAINS – All interior floor drains shall be plumbed to connect to 
the sanitary sewer system, and shall not be connected to stormwater collection 
system per the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program’s C.3 
requirements. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
53 ENCROACHMENT PERMITS, BONDS, AND INSURANCE - The applicant must obtain 
an encroachment permit, posting the required bonds and insurance, and provide 
a one (1) year warranty for all work to be done in the City's right of way. This 
encroachment permit shall be obtained prior to the issuance of a foundation 
building permit and prior to any work being done in the City's right of way. The 
applicant shall have street improvement plans prepared for all work in the public 
right of way by a licensed civil engineer, whose signed engineer’s stamp shall 
appear on the plans. The improvement plans, specifications and traffic control 
plans shall be included in the Superstructure building permit submittal and 
substantially conform to the approved planning application.  Any changes to the 
improvements shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee at 
their sole discretion.  Design assumptions and criteria shall be submitted upon 
request.  Project specifications shall be included for review.  The traffic control 
plan shall comply with the most recent version of the California Manual of 
Uniform Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD) and the City’s Traffic Control Plan 
Requirements. Quantities for items below are provided only to determine 
minimum bonding requirements for the encroachment permit. The 
encroachment permit for right of way improvements shall include, at a minimum, 
the following items: 
(A) 
STREET TREES - The applicant shall plant street trees to match the City of 
San Mateo street tree plan in effect at the time of construction. The street tree 
plans shall be constructed per City Standard Drawings 3-1-847, Tree Planting

--- page 25 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 16 of 43 
 
Details, and 3-1-933, and will include tree grates. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
(B) 
SIGNAGE AND STREET MARKINGS - The applicant shall install necessary 
street markings and signage of a material and design approved by the City 
Engineer, and replace any that are damaged during construction. These include 
but are not limited to all pavement markings, painted curbs and handicap 
markings, and 
- Lane Restriping and the removal of on-street parking per the Transportation 
Impact Analysis Condition of Approval, 
- “Keep Clear” markings along eastbound 5th Avenue in front of the proposed 
project driveway, 
- Bicycle lane (Class II) striping and signage on both sides of East 5th Avenue from 
East of the Railroad Tracks to Delaware Street 
- Pavement markings for high visibility crosswalks on all approaches at the 
intersection of Claremont Street and 5th Avenue, and 
- Pavement markings and signage for the Bicycle Boulevard on South Claremont 
Street along the project frontage. 
All permanent pavement markings shall be thermoplastic. Color and location of 
painted curbs, signage and markings shall be shown on the plans and subject to 
approval by the City Engineer. Any existing painted curb or pavement markings  
no longer required shall be removed by grinding if thermoplastic, sand blasting if 
in paint. Once installed, the applicant shall coordinate with City crews to mark any 
red curb within the proposed City right-of-way with a City seal. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
(C) 
SIDEWALK - The applicant shall replace to existing City standards all 
sidewalk surrounding the project site. Sidewalk replacement shall be constructed 
per City Standard Drawing 3-1-141A. At the time the planning application was 
filed, a minimum of seven thousand four hundred and seventy five (7475) square 
feet of sidewalk will need to be replaced. This figure is provided only to  
determine minimum bonding requirements for the encroachment permit.  
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
(D) 
CURB RAMPS - The applicant shall construct three (3) curb ramps in 
accordance with State Standard Drawing No. A88A and one (1) curb extension per 
the approved Planning Application plans. One (1) curb ramp shall be at the 
intersection of E. 5th Avenue and S. Claremont Street. The curb extension and  
two (2) curb ramps shall be at the intersection of E. 4th Avenue and S. Claremont 
St. The actual ramp "Case" shall be identified on the plans and shall be to the 
approval of the City Engineer. Design drawings of the curb extension and drainage 
shall be prepared by a licensed Civil Engineer, and subject to review and approval 
by the City Engineer or his/her designee. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
(E) 
CURB AND GUTTER - The applicant shall replace to existing City standards all 
curb and gutter surrounding the project site. New curb and gutter shall be 
constructed per City Standard Drawing 3-1-141A. At the time of the planning

--- page 26 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 17 of 43   
 
application was filed, a minimum of eight hundred and five (805) linear feet of 
curb and gutter will need to be replaced. This figure is provided only to 
determine minimum bonding requirements for the encroachment permit. 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
(F) 
DRIVEWAY APPROACH - The applicant shall install one (1) City Standard 
Commercial driveway approach as shown on the approved plans. The approach 
shall align with the entrance/exit of the garage. The new commercial driveway 
approach shall be constructed per City Standard Drawing 3-1-148. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
(G) 
DRIVEWAY REMOVAL - The applicant is to remove the existing driveway 
approaches located on S. Claremont Street, E. 4th Avenue, and E. 5th Avenue as 
shown on the approved planning application plans, and replace them with 
sidewalk, curb and gutter per City Standard Drawing 3-1-141A. The total amount 
of all sidewalk, curb and gutter to be removed and replace are defined in the 
separate Sidewalk, and Curb and Gutter conditions. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
(H) LOADING ZONE - The applicant shall install a forty (40) foot by ten (10) foot 
loading zone on E. 4th Avenue as shown on the approved Planning Application 
plans. Design drawings of the loading zone and drainage shall be prepared by a 
licensed Civil Engineer, and subject to review and approval by the City Engineer or 
his/her designee. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
(I) 
SEWER LATERAL -  The applicant shall install as a minimum two (2) – eight 
(8) inch and one (1) – six (6) inch City Standard sewer lateral connections from 
the property line to the sewer main located in the street right of way per the 
approved Planning Application Plans on E. 5th Avenue and S. Claremont St. The 
installation shall be done in accordance with City Standard Drawing 3-1-101. 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
(J) 
STORM MANHOLES - The applicant shall install three (3) standard storm 
manholes on E. 5th Avenue, per approved plans and in accordance with City 
Standard Drawing No. 3-1-104. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
(K) GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE FOR SPECIAL PROJECTS - Applicant seeking Special 
Project Status exemption to Low Impact Development for C.3 treatment shall 
provide green infrastructure (GI) to the extent feasible along the project frontage 
facing public right of way on 4th Avenue, 4th Avenue and Claremont Street, and 
Claremont Street. Improvements include: 
- Interceptor trees, 
- Two (2) bioretention areas, 
- One (1) curb extension bioretention area, 
- Thirty-four (34) linear feet of storm main,

--- page 27 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 18 of 43 
 
- Fifty-six (56) linear feet of perforated storm pipe, 
- Three (3) overflow catch basins, and 
- Three (3) storm drain cleanouts in accordance with the guidance and 
specifications provided by the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention 
Program, the City of San Mateo GI Plan, or as approved by the City Engineer. This 
figure is provided only to determine minimum bonding requirements for the 
encroachment permit. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
(L) 
STREET LIGHTS - STREETLIGHTS/PHOTOMETRIC ANALYSIS - The applicant 
shall submit a photometric analysis showing the installation of streetlights along 
the project frontages, to meet the required levels shown below as recommended 
by the Illuminating Engineering Society (IES) Illuminance Method. The 
photometric plan shall include point-by-point lighting levels in foot-candles for  
the entire right-of-way immediately adjacent to the project, starting at the 
property line. The analysis shall cover three main analysis zones (AZ) the roadway, 
sidewalk and traffic intersections (may require other zones if applicable). 
Roadway analysis shall include the entire roadway width from face of curb to face 
of curb. The sidewalk analysis shall start at the back of walk to the face of curb 
along the project frontages. The traffic intersection shall include the entire 
roadway up to the end of each curb return, on each approach. Each AZ, shall  
show calculation data such as average, maximum, minimum, uniformity ratio 
(avg./min) in foot-candle and the number of points. Each AZ shall be clearly label 
and calculations shall be presented in a legible and concise manner. The Light  
Loss Factor (LLF) used for this analysis shall be .803. A pole and luminaire  
schedule shall be included in the photometric analysis showing the mounting 
height (MH), mast arm length (MA) and luminaire type. The selected  
specifications for the fixtures used for the analysis shall be provided by the City as 
per the latest City Standard to meet latest greenhouse gas emissions reduction 
goals. Once the photometric analysis has been completed, the developer shall 
furnish and install the streetlight improvements outlined by the photometric 
analysis. If the photometric analysis shows that no additional street lighting is 
necessary, the developer at a minimum will upgrade the existing streetlight 
infrastructure in the immediate vicinity to the latest City standard or directed by 
the City Engineer along the project frontages. 
 
The applicant shall also submit a full streetlight and electrical plan showing the 
existing streetlight infrastructure and proposed streetlight infrastructure as 
dictated by the photometric analysis. The streetlight and electrical plan shall

--- page 28 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 19 of 44 
 
show all electrical conduits, pull boxes, service connections, fuse holders, bus 
fuses and all other electrical components necessary to construct the 
improvements. It is the developer’s responsibility to coordinate with PG&E to get 
the necessary power to these new improvements. If power is to be tapped into  
an existing streetlight circuit, voltage drop calculations shall be included in the 
plans. All fees, permits and dues associated with these improvements will be paid 
for by the developer. 
 
In addition, the streetlight at the northwest corner of 5th Avenue near S 
Claremont Street is designated as a police memorial through a sign and the light 
of the luminaire showing blue. This memorial shall be maintained, or the 
applicant shall propose an alternative design that provides a sign and blue light, 
complies with Public Works photometric and through zone requirements, and is 
reviewed and approved by the Chief of Police and City Engineer or their designees 
prior to the issuance of the grading, shoring, or superstructure building permit, 
whichever comes first. 
 
PROJECT ILLUMINANCE REQUIREMENT 
Roadway (IES Table 3) 
South Claremont Street: Collector - High Pedestrian Conflict 
East 4th Avenue: Major - High Pedestrian Conflict 
East 5th Avenue: Major - High Pedestrian Conflict 
 
Sidewalk (IES Table 5) 
South Claremont Street - High Pedestrian Conflict 
East 4th Avenue - High Pedestrian Conflict 
East 5th Avenue - High Pedestrian Conflict 
 
Intersections (IES Table 8) 
- South Claremont Street & East 4th Avenue 
*Collector/Major - High Pedestrian Conflict 
- South Claremont Street & East 5th Avenue 
*Collector/Major - High Pedestrian Conflict (PUBLIC WORKS) 
54 CONDITION #54 HAS BEEN DELETED 
55 SEPARATE WATER METERS - When a development includes multiple uses, there 
shall be a separate water meter for the residential use and a separate water 
meter for the other development use. This will facilitate the accurate assessment 
of the Sewer Service Charge, which is based on water use and customer class. 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
56 COVERED PARKING GARAGE DRAINAGE - The building permit application plans

--- page 29 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021  
Page 20 of 44 
 
shall show that water from the covered parking garage shall not be discharged 
onto the public street and shall be discharged to the City's sewer system. If 
required by the City Engineer, The applicant shall design a sewer system to 
separate the oil and water and connect to the City's sanitary sewer system. The 
design shall be done by a licensed Civil Engineer who shall provide hydraulic 
calculations and drawings subject to the approval of the City Engineer. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
57 PARKING LOTS - The applicant shall submit plans for all required off street parking 
lots showing proper grading, drainage, and ramps profile. With exception of 
parking dimensions, the plans shall conform City Standards. Parking dimensions 
shall substantially conform to the approved Planning Application Plans (PA-2020-
055) as determined by the Director of Public Works or his/her designee. Plans 
shall also include details and specifications of pedestrian striping, pedestrian 
safety measures (including but not limited to, a pedestrian warning system at the 
entrance and exit of the garage), bollards and bollard locations, pay stations and 
pay station locations, type of parking space, and real-time parking occupancy 
system in coordination with the City. The plans shall be approved by the Director 
of Public Works or his/her designee prior to the issuance of the Superstructure 
Building. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
58 CLEAN, INSPECT AND REPAIR STORM LINE - The applicant shall clean and inspect 
(via remote TV camera) the storm line from the manhole upstream to the 
manhole downstream of the project area (MH 13H:17 to MH 13H:03; CB13H:55  
to CB13H:60; CB13H:60 to CB13H:23). The video inspection shall be done by a 
professional video inspection company, to City standards, and be completed prior 
to building permit issuance. The video of the inspection shall be reviewed with 
the Department of Public Works and any cracked or broken areas of the line along 
the project frontage shall be repaired by the applicant at his expense. The 
required repairs, as determined by the Public Works Department, shall appear on 
the improvement plans submitted by the applicant for permit plan check. All 
necessary repairs to the storm line shall be completed and approved prior to 
connection from the project site. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
59 NOTICE OF INTENT - The project applicant shall file a Notice of Intent (NOI) with 
the State Water Resources Control Board to obtain coverage under the State 
General Construction Activity NPDES Permit. Proof of permit must be provided to 
the Public Works Department along with a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan 
(SWPPP) prepared by a qualified SWPPP designer prior to issuance of the STOPPP 
Construction permit. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
60 UNDERGROUND UTILITIES - The building permit application plans shall show the 
installation of all new, and upgraded, utility service, including telephone, electric 
power, and other communications lines underground to the building in

--- page 30 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 21 of 44 
 
accordance with City of San Mateo Municipal Code 26.32.020. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
61 FENCES AND OTHER PERMANENT STRUCTURES WITHIN CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY – The 
applicant shall locate all project fencing and foundation of a permanent nature 
within the project’s property and out of the City right-of-way. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
62 REMOVAL OF PG&E EASEMENT - The applicant shall quitclaim or revise the 
language of the 10' wide PG&E easement on 480 East 4th Avenue (Refer to 
Recorded Document Number 98-103943 recorded on July 1, 1998). (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
63 GARBAGE/RECYCLE/COMPOSTING STORAGE AND SERVICE – The applicant shall 
provide an adequate area for the purposes of storing garbage, recycling, 
composting collection containers for scheduled servicing by the franchise solid 
waste collection service. The containers may be placed on the street within the 
service zone for a maximum of two hours; one hour prior to the scheduled 
servicing time, and must be removed from the street within one hour after the 
service. The containers shall be placed at the service location allowing enough 
room for the truck to safely approach the containers. The collection containers 
shall be brought to the service area on the day of service and returned to the 
storage enclosure by the occupant or property manager. The containers are not 
to be in public view or in the public right-of-way prior to, or beyond the 
scheduled service times. A letter shall be provided from the City’s franchise solid 
waste collection service provider stating that service is available to the project as 
designed. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
64 TRIANGULAR AREA OF VISIBILITY – The building permit application plans shall 
show that the installation of landscaping and permanent structures located 
within the 10' triangular area of visibility at the driveway, and any triangular area 
of visibility at any project corner meets the requirements of a minimum vertical 
clearance of 7', and/or are less than 3' in height. This includes all PG&E above 
ground structures and other utility facilities. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
65 ADDRESS PLAN - The applicant shall submit to the Public Works Department a 
final address plan.  The plan shall be substantially in conformance with the 
address plan approved with the planning application. Said submittal shall be 
approved by the City Engineer prior to the submittal of plans for any demolition 
permit, building permit, or site development permit and shall be satisfied prior to 
issuance of whichever permit is issued first. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
66 CLEAN, INSPECT AND REPAIR SANITARY SEWER - The applicant shall clean and 
inspect (via remote TV camera) the mainline sewers from the manholes upstream 
to the manholes downstream of the project lateral connections on E. 5th Avenue 
and S. Claremont Street (MH 263:27X to MH 263:38X; MH263:26X to MH263:39X; 
and MH263:35X to MH263:37X). The video inspection shall be done by a

--- page 31 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021  
Page 22 of 44 
 
professional sanitary sewer video inspection company, to City standards, and be 
completed prior to building permit issuance. The video of the inspection shall be 
reviewed with the Department of Public Works and any cracked or broken areas 
of the line along the project frontage shall be repaired by the applicant at his 
expense. The required repairs (spray foam-RazoRooter or flushing, or removal of 
roots, or replacement), as determined by the Public Works Department, shall 
appear on the improvement plans submitted by the applicant for permit plan 
check. All necessary repairs to the sewer shall be completed and approved prior 
to connection of the project lateral to the sewer. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
67 TRASH CAPTURE DEVICES – The applicant shall install trash capture devices in all 
storm drain inlets around the exterior frontages that lead directly to the off-site 
storm drain system. Locations of devices are on E. 5th Avenue for both the 
residential and garage frontages. Devices shall be approved by the City Engineer 
or designee. Trash capture devices are required on site consistent with the State 
Water Resources Control Board definition of Full Capture System. All on-site trash 
capture devices shall be cleaned routinely and maintained by the developer or 
occupant per the Stormwater Management Facilities Maintenance Agreement. 
The building permit application plans shall show trash capture devices. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
68 GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE - Applicant shall install green infrastructure (GI) 
improvements in the Public sidewalk planter area, including interceptor trees, 
bioretention areas, a curb extension, and a drainage system (e.g. curb cuts, 
underdrain/storm lines, overflow catch basins, and cleanouts) per the approved 
Planning Application plans. The improvements shall be in accordance with the 
guidance and specifications provided by the San Mateo Countywide Water 
Pollution Prevention Program, the City of San Mateo GI Plan, or as approved by 
the City Engineer. Drainage capacity calculations shall be performed by a licensed 
Civil Engineer, whose signed engineer’s stamp shall appear on the calculations 
sheets, and shall be submitted to the City for review and approval with the  
project Civil Plans. The developer or occupant/property manager is responsible  
for the operation and maintenance set forth in the Stormwater Management 
Facilities Maintenance Agreement. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
69 GUY WIRE CLEARANCES - The applicant shall provide documentation for required 
clearances between the guy wire pole and guy wires from the proposed City 
garage frontage and pedestrian bridge on 5th Avenue. If the applicant cannot 
show compliance to required clearances, the applicant shall implement an 
alternate plan as approved by the guy wire pole owner. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 32 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 23 of 44 
 
The following conditions shall be addressed on the construction plans submitted for A 
BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE SUPERSTRUCTURE and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of this 
permit, or if another deadline is specified in a condition, at that time. 
Building Division (PA) 
70 SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM - The buildings shall be provided with the solar 
photovoltaic systems of not less than the minimum wattage required by Section 
23.24.030 of the City of San Mateo Muncipal Code. (BUILDING) 
71 PUBLICLY FUNDED RESIDENTIAL BUILIDNG - Accessibility requirements for a 
publicly funded residential building shall comply with the provisions of Chapter 
11B of the California Building Code. (BUILDING) 
72 VAPOR BARRIERS/PASSIVE VENTING - The project applicant shall, to the extent 
required by the Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC), install vapor 
barriers and/or passive venting beneath the proposed residential building on 
the 480 East 4th parcel to the satisfaction of DTSC. To the extent so required, 
the applicant shall include the improvement on the project plans prior to 
approval of the Foundation and/or Superstructure building permit application, 
whichever comes first. (BUILDING) 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
73 CONSTRUCTION TYPE- Provide the building(s) construction types on the cover 
sheet. (FIRE) 
74 GURNEY SIZE ELEVATOR - Provide one gurney size elevator. Refer to the 2016 
California Building Code, Section 3002.4.1(a) for reference. (FIRE) 
75 FIRE CONTROL ROOM - Provide a fire control room for the mid rise building per 
SMMC 23.28.190. (FIRE) 
76 TWO WAY COMMUNICATION - A two-way communication system shall be 
provided at each elevator landing. Refer to 2016 California Fire Code, Section 
1009.8. (FIRE) 
77 EMERGENCY RESPONDER RADIO COVERAGE - Provide third party testing report to 
the Fire Department. System shall be submitted under a separate permit. (FIRE) 
(FIRE) 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
78 PARK IN-LIEU/IMPACT FEES: The applicant shall pay a park impact fee (SMMC 
Section 13.05.070) or a fee in-lieu of dedication of lands for park and recreation 
purposes (park in-lieu fee) (SMMC Chapter 26.64). The final fees shall be 
determined upon approval of the final map for the park In-lieu fee or prior to the 
issuance of each building permit for the park impact fee. The park in-lieu fee shall 
be paid prior to final inspection or the date the certificate of occupancy is issued

--- page 33 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021  
Page 24 of 44 
 
for the residential structure, whichever occurs first. If a project with an approved 
tentative map is issued a building permit prior to the approval of the final map, 
the applicant shall be subject to the payment of the park impact fee only prior to 
the issuance of the first building superstructure permit. (PUBLIC WORKS). 
79 TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS - The applicant shall implement all conditions 
per the Transportation Impact Analysis (408 E. 4th Avenue Residential 
Development Report, General Plan Conformance Transportation Analysis, dated 
6/5/2020) and the Transportation Section of the Mitigated Negative Declaration. 
The design drawings shall be prepared by a Licensed Civil Engineer, and reviewed 
and approved by the City Engineer prior to issuance of the Superstructure Permit. 
The conditions are as follows: 
RESTRIPING AND RETIMING: Restripe eastbound 5th Avenue with two through 
lanes. Two through lanes are required east of the proposed project driveway to 
the Delaware Street intersection. At the Claremont Street intersection, eastbound 
5th Avenue would be restriped with one shared left-through lane and one shared 
through-right lane. At the Delaware Street intersection, eastbound 5th Avenue 
would be restriped with one left-turn lane and one shared through-right lane. To 
accommodate the expected volumes under background plus project conditions, 
the intersection of Delaware Street and 5th Avenue would require signal  
retiming. 
KEEP CLEAR MARKINGS: Install “Keep Clear” markings along eastbound 5th 
Avenue in front of the proposed project driveway to facilitate vehicles accessing 
the proposed garage. 
IMPLEMENTATION OF CLASS II BIKE LANES ON 5TH AVENUE: Implement Class II 
bike lanes per the 2020 Bike Master Plan along both sides of 5th Avenue, from 
East of the Railroad tracks to Delaware Street. 
CROSSWALKS: Install high visibility crosswalks at the intersection of Claremont 
Street and 5th Avenue on all approaches to complete the pedestrian network 
within the immediate project vicinity. 
REMOVAL OF ON-STREET PARKING: Remove all on-street parking along both sides 
of 5th Avenue from East of the Railroad Tracks to Delaware Street for lane 
restriping, implementation of bike lanes and sight visibility as outlined in this 
condition. 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
80 GROUND LEASE - The applicant shall execute a ground lease, or equivalent 
agreement, authorizing the location and use of a pedestrian bridge above and 
across East 5th Avenue, prior to the issuance of the first building permit. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
81 TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE - The applicant shall pay a fee 
proportional to the project's share of transportation improvements needed to 
serve cumulative development within the City of San Mateo. The fee amount for

--- page 34 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 25 of 44 
 
the residential structure will be based upon the City Council resolution in effect at 
the time of residential Superstructure building permit issuance. The fee amount 
for the garage structure will be based upon the City Council resolution in effect at 
the time of garage Superstructure building permit issuance. The fee shall be 
collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior to final inspection or the 
date the certificate of occupancy is issued for the residential structure, whichever 
occurs first. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
82 WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT PHASE II IMPACT FEE - In order to meet the 
increased demands on the Wastewater Treatment Plant created by this project, 
the applicant shall contribute fees toward the Plant expansion based upon the 
average projected sanitary flow. The fee amount for the residential structure 
will be based upon the City Council resolution in effect at the time of residential 
Superstructure building permit issuance. The fee amount for the garage 
structure will be based upon the City Council resolution in effect at the time of 
garage Superstructure building permit issuance. The fee shall be collected by 
the Public Works Department and paid prior to final inspection or the date the 
certificate of occupancy is issued for the residential structure, whichever occurs 
first. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
83 SANITARY SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE - The applicant shall pay a fee 
proportional to the project’s share of the increase amount of sewage generated 
by the project. The fee amount for the residential structure will be based upon 
the City Council resolution in effect at the time of residential Superstructure 
building permit issuance. The fee amount for the garage structure will be based 
upon the City Council resolution in effect at the time of garage Superstructure 
building permit issuance. The fee shall be collected by the Public Works 
Department and paid prior to final inspection or the date the certificate of 
occupancy is issued for the residential structure, whichever occurs first. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
84 PRIVATELY-LEASED PUBLIC PLAZA – The privately-leased plaza shall be accessible 
to the public, subject to reasonable use limitations, including hours. The 
applicant shall enter into a ground lease with the City, which sets forth: the 
hours of public access, the procedures for modifying the hours of public access, 
the applicant’s controls over the plaza, and the applicant’s ability to close public 
access under specified circumstances. Applicant is responsible for maintenance 
of the plaza. The building permit for the Superstructure shall show design details 
for features within the plaza, including signage, subject to review and approval 
by the City Engineer and Zoning Administrator. Signage shall include but not be 
limited to, hours of public access. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, or

--- page 35 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021  
Page 26 of 44 
 
ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, whichever occurs first, or if another deadline is 
specified in a condition, at that time. 
Fire Department (PA) 
85 FIRE AND LIFE-SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR OCCUPANCY - All fire protection 
systems shall be installed and approved by the Fire Department prior to 
occupancy. All exits, signage, emergency lighting, rated construction, fire 
assemblies, fire extinguishers, evacuation signs as required, smoke control, 
generators, HVAC smoke detection as required, elevator recall and building 
address numbers. This condition shall be met prior to the release of utilities, final 
inspection, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs first. (FIRE) 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
86 VERIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH ACOUSTICAL ANALYSIS – The applicant shall 
submit a letter prepared by the person/firm who prepared the acoustical analysis 
for the project, verifying that all recommendations contained in the analysis have 
been incorporated into the construction of the project. The letter shall also verify 
that the project will comply with the noise requirements contained in the City’s 
General Plan. This condition shall be met prior to the release of utilities, final 
inspection, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs first. 
(PLANNING) 
87 LETTER OF ARCHITECTURAL COMPLIANCE – The designer or architect of record 
shall submit a stamped and signed letter of compliance that the construction is 
consistent with the approved building permit plans, prior to scheduling the final 
Planning Division inspection. This condition shall be met prior to the release of 
utilities, final inspection, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever 
occurs first. (PLANNING) 
88 FINANCIAL SECURITIES FOR ONSITE PRIVATE LANDSCAPING - The applicant shall 
submit a cost estimate and financial securities in a form and amount satisfactory 
to the Zoning Administrator sufficient to ensure the installation of all approved 
onsite private landscape improvements including all new trees. The applicant 
shall request a follow-up inspection by the Planning Division in accordance with 
Section 27.71.060 of the Municipal Code in order to reclaim financial securities 
for landscaping. This condition shall be met prior to the release of utilities, final 
inspection, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs first. 
(PLANNING) 
89 VERIFICATION OF LANDSCAPE INSTALLATION – The applicant shall submit a letter 
prepared by the project landscape architect stating that all landscape 
improvements (including trees, shrubs, and irrigation systems) have been 
installed in compliance with the approved landscape plans submitted to the City 
for construction. This condition shall be met prior to the release of utilities, final

--- page 36 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 27 of 44 
 
inspection, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs first. 
(PLANNING) 
90 PLANNING DIVISION INSPECTIONS – The applicant shall notify the project planner 
for inspections related to construction of all structures, landscaping, and other

--- page 37 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 28 of 43 
 
site improvements. The notification request shall be given at least 72 hours prior 
to the requested time for inspection. (PLANNING) 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
91 RESTORATION OF ROADWAY – Due to the anticipated project’s truck traffic the 
applicant shall grind and overlay with 2.5 inches of asphalt concrete the roadways 
anticipated to be damaged as a result of construction activities within the general 
area of the project or along the designated haul route. If the street abutting the 
property has been classified as being in a failed condition or a Pavement  
Condition Index (PCI) of 50 or below, the applicant will be required to reconstruct 
the street. Limits of the roadway repair shall be S. Claremont Street, E. 4th 
Avenue, and E. 5th Avenue for the entire width and length of the roadways along 
the project frontages. The City Engineer shall approve the roadway repair prior to 
the release of utilities, final inspection, or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, 
whichever occurs first. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
92 TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION (TMA) – This project is required 
to participate in the TMA, including annual payment of membership dues, when it 
has been established by the City and to pay $15,000 toward the formation of the 
TMA or for planning and implementation of TDM measures in the Downtown 
area. The TMA will develop TDM measures and make them available to both 
existing and future development within the Downtown area. Payment shall be 
made prior to issuance of the building permit. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
93 GARAGE LICENSE AND EASEMENT AGREEMENT - The applicant shall execute a 
garage license and easement agreement, or equivalent documents, with the City 
of San Mateo for access and use of the dedicated private residential parking 
within the City-owned garage. This agreement shall be executed prior to 
occupancy. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
94 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FACILITIES MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT – The 
applicant shall execute a maintenance agreement with the City’s Director of  
Public Works as specified in Chapter 7.39.210-230 of the Stormwater 
Management and Discharge Control ordinance. The agreement shall outline the 
operation and maintenance (O&M) plan for the permanent stormwater  
treatment facilities both on-site and in the Public Right-of-Way (Green 
Infrastructure) and designate the developer or occupant/property manager as the 
responsible party for O&M. The agreement shall be approved by the Director of 
Public Works, notarized by both parties, and recorded at the County of San 
Mateo Recorder’s office. This agreement shall be recorded prior to the first 
occupancy of the building. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 38 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021  
Page 29 of 43 
 
 
95 TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT (TDM) PROGRAM – A Transportation 
Demand Management (TDM) Program has been prepared for this project (refer  
to the 480 E. 4th Avenue Residential Development Report, Transportation 
Demand Management Plan, dated 5/21/2020). It is anticipated that property 
management will continue to modify and refine the TDM program over time to 
best achieve the trip reduction target, address market conditions, and respond to 
tenant needs, which may include TDM measures not currently listed in the TDM 
plan when they may be found to be more effective in reducing vehicle trips. A 
written letter to the Public Works Director on an annual basis will include an 
assessment of compliance with the Transportation Management Plan including 
mode split survey results, by the end of the calendar year (December 31st). 
Additionally, it shall be a requirement that the developer or their designee 
participate in the formation of the Downtown Transportation Management 
Agency (TMA) and make payment towards the formation of the TMA or for 
planning and implementation of TDM measures in the Downtown area. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION 
PHASE OF THE PROJECT, or if another deadline is specified in a condition, at that time. 
Building Division (PA) 
96 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES - The following provision to control traffic 
congestion, noise, and dust shall be followed during site excavation, grading and 
construction: 
 
Work hours regulated by the San Mateo Municipal Code shall only be permitted 
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, 
between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on Saturday, and between 12:00 noon and 4:00 
p.m. on Sundays and holidays. These hours do not apply to construction work  
that takes place inside a completely enclosed building and does not exceed the 
exterior ambient noise level as measured 10 feet from the exterior property lines. 
 
The allowed hours of Building construction activities may be waived or modified 
through an exemption from the hours of work designated in Section 23.06.060 of 
the San Mateo Municipal Code, for limited periods, if the Building Official finds  
that: 
 
(A) 
The following criteria are met: 
 
(i) 
Permitting extended hours of construction will decrease the total time

--- page 39 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 30 of 43 
 
needed to complete the project thus mitigating the total amount of noise 
associated with the project as a whole; or 
 
(ii) 
An emergency situation exists where the construction is necessary to 
correct an unsafe or dangerous condition resulting in obvious and eminent peril 
to public health and safety. If such a condition exists, the City may waive any of 
the remaining requirements outlined below. 
 
(B) 
The exemption will not conflict with any other conditions of approval 
required by the City to mitigate significant impacts. 
 
(C) 
The contractor or owner of the property will notify residential and 
commercial occupants of property adjacent to the construction site of the hours 
of construction activity which may impact the area. This notification must be 
provided three days prior to the start of the construction activity. 
 
(D) 
The approved hours of construction activity will be posted at the 
construction site in a place and manner that can be easily viewed by an interested 
member of the public. 
 
The Building Official may revoke the exemption at any time if the contractor or 
owner of the property fails to abide by the conditions of exemption or if it is 
determined that the peace, comfort and tranquility of the occupants of adjacent 
residential or commercial properties are impaired because of the location and 
nature of the construction. The waiver application must be submitted to the 
Building Official ten (10) working days prior to the requested date of waiver. 
(BUILDING) 
97 * MM NOI-1.2: The project applicant shall incorporate the following mitigation 
measures into the proposed project to minimize the impact of construction noise 
on existing sensitive receptors. 
• A construction noise logistics plan shall be prepared that specifies hours of 
construction, noise and vibration minimization measures, posting or 
notification of construction schedules, and designation of a noise 
disturbance coordinator who would respond to neighborhood complaints 
will be required to be in place prior to the start of construction and 
implemented during construction. 
• Construction activities shall be governed by the City’s Municipal Code, unless 
permission is granted with a development permit or other planning approval. All 
construction activities will occur within the following times: 
o Weekdays: between 7 am and 7 pm 
o Saturdays: between 9 am and 5 pm

--- page 40 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021  
Page 31 of 43 
 
o Sundays and Holidays: between 12 pm and 4 pm or at other such hours as 
authorized or restricted by the permit, so long as they meet the following 
conditions: 
• Hours for work in the City Right-of-Way are more restrictive based on Public 
Works Condition of Approval. 
• All construction equipment shall be equipped with mufflers and sound control 
devices (e.g., intake silencers and noise shrouds) that are in good condition and 
appropriate for the equipment. 
• Maintain all construction equipment to minimize noise emissions. 
• Stationary equipment shall be located on the site so as to maintain the 
greatest possible distance to the sensitive receptors. 
• Unnecessary idling of internal combustion engines should be strictly 
prohibited. 
• Residential uses within 500 feet and commercial or office uses within 200 feet 
of the project site shall be notified of the construction schedule in writing. 
• The construction contractor shall provide the name and telephone number an 
on-site construction liaison. In the event that construction noise is intrusive to the 
community, the construction liaison shall investigate the source of the noise and 
require that reasonable measures be implemented to correct the problem. 
(BUILDING) 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
98 FIRE SAFETY DURING CONSTRUCTION - Buildings under construction shall comply 
with the requirements of the California Fire Code. All additional fire permits 
required by the California Fire Code shall be obtained from the Bureau of Fire 
Protection and Life Safety. (FIRE) 
99 FIRE-SAFETY DURING DEMOLITION - Building(s) under construction or demolition 
shall comply with the California Fire Code. In addition to the requirements of 
Chapter 14 the following items shall be followed during the demolition of any 
structure. 
Where an existing standpipe exists within a building it shall be maintained in 
operable condition for use by the fire department at all times during construction 
including during demolition. Such standpipe shall be demolished with the building 
but shall not be demolished more than one floor below the floor being 
demolished. (FIRE) 
100 FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS - The applicant shall maintain a not less than 20 ft wide 
clear all weather surface (paving) for emergency vehicle access. This access shall 
be provided and approved by the fire department before any construction or 
combustible material will be allowed. (FIRE)

--- page 41 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 32 of 43 
 
 
101 BARRICADES, FENCES, or GATES ACROSS FIRE ACCESS ROADWAYS DURING 
CONSTRUCTION - The installation or use of barricades, fences, or gates across 
emergency vehicle access roads during construction shall have prior approval of 
the City of San Mateo Fire Chief, or his/her designee. (FIRE) 
102 BUILDING EGRESS: Adjacent buildings/properties shall not have their required 
egress restricted or compromised at any time during the construction of this 
project.  (FIRE) 
103 PREMISE NUMBER - The applicant shall post an address number on each building 
at the project site that must be easily visible from the street or fire access road. 
This address number shall be installed at the start of construction and shall be 
maintained at all times that the use permitted by this planning application 
occupies the premises. (FIRE) 
 
Parks and Recreation Department (PA) 
104 TREE PROTECTION MEASURES - All required Tree Protection Measures are to 
remain in place and properly maintained during all phases of construction. The 
Contractor is to notify the Project Arborist in advance when construction 
operations are to be performed within the drip line of protected trees. (e.g. 
trenching, excavation, grade changes) Adjustment of Tree Protection Measures 
require approval from the Project Arborist. (PARKS AND RECREATION) 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
105 * MM CUL-2.2 - In the event that human remains are discovered during 
excavation and/or grading of the site, all activity within a 50-foot radius of the 
find shall be stopped. The San Mateo County Coroner shall be notified and make 
a determination as to whether the remains are of Native American origin or 
whether an investigation into the cause of death is required. If the remains are 
determined to be Native American, the Coroner will notify the Native American 
Heritage Commission (NAHC) immediately. Once the NAHC identifies the most 
likely descendants, the descendants will make recommendations regarding 
proper burial, which will be implemented in accordance with Section 15064.5(e) 
of the CEQA Guidelines. (PLANNING) 
106 PALEONTOLOGICAL RESOURCES - Should any potentially unique paleontological 
resources (fossils) be encountered during development activities, work shall be 
halted immediately within 50 feet of the discovery. The City of San Mateo 
Planning Division shall be immediately notified, and the applicant shall be 
responsible for retaining the services of a qualified paleontologist to determine 
the significance of the discovery. The paleontologist shall evaluate the uniqueness 
of the find and prepare a written report documenting the find and

--- page 42 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021  
Page 33 of 43 
 
recommending further courses of action. Based on the significance of the 
discovery, the actions may include avoidance, preservation in place, excavation, 
documentation, recovery, or other appropriate measures as determined by the 
paleontologist. (PLANNING) 
107 * MM BIO-4.1 - Construction activities (or at least the commencement of such 
activities) should be scheduled to avoid the nesting season to the extent 
practicable. If construction activities are scheduled to take place outside of the 
nesting season, all impacts on nesting birds protected under the MBTA and CDFW 
will be avoided. The nesting season for most birds in San Mateo County extends 
from February 1st through August 30th. 
 
* MM BIO-4.2 - If it is not practicable to schedule construction activities between 
September 1 and January 31 then preconstruction surveys for nesting birds shall 
be conducted by a qualified ornithologist to ensure that no active nests will be 
disturbed during project implementation. These surveys shall be conducted no 
more than 14 days prior to the initiation of construction. During this survey, the 
ornithologist shall inspect all trees and other potential nesting habitats (e.g., 
trees, shrubs, ruderal grasslands, buildings) in and immediately adjacent to the 
impact areas for nests. 
 
* MM BIO-4.3 - If an active nest is found sufficiently close to work areas to be 
disturbed by these activities, the ornithologist shall determine the extent of a 
construction-free buffer zone to be established around the nest (typically 300 
feet for raptors and 100 feet for other species), to ensure that nests of species 
protected by the MBTA and CDFW shall not be disturbed during project 
implementation. 
 
* MM BIO-4.4 - If construction activities will not be initiated until after the start of 
the nesting season, all potential nesting substrates (e.g., bushes, trees, grasses, 
and other vegetation) that are scheduled to be removed by the project may be 
removed prior to the start of the nesting season (e.g., prior to February 1st). 
(PLANNING) 
108 HERITAGE TREE PROTECTION - The following condition of approval would be 
applied to the proposed project due to the retention of two Heritage Trees 
on-site. 
• The applicant shall protect all Heritage Trees designated to remain from 
damage during construction. Tree protection shall comply with all provisions of 
the Heritage Tree Ordinance, approved Tree Protection Plan contained in the 
approved project arborist’s report, and any requirements imposed by the City. 
The following tree protection measures shall be shown on building permit 
drawings:

--- page 43 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 34 of 43 
 
o All recommendations for tree protection contained in the approved Tree 
Protection Plan contained in the approved project arborist’s report, and/or 
additional requirements imposed by the City. 
o Protective fencing shall be located at the drip line of existing major vegetation 
to remain. This protective fencing shall be constructed of solid wood, chain link, 
or other solid materials subject to approval of the Zoning Administrator. 
o Oil, gas, chemicals, or construction materials shall not be stored within the 
drip line of trees that are designated to be preserved. 
o Signs, wires, or other types of obstructions shall not be attached to trees. 
o Trenching under the drip line of trees is to be avoided. If trenching is 
necessary, trenches are to be hand dug and major roots retained. 
o All tree protection measures shall be constructed prior to issuance of a 
grading permit, demolition permit, or building permit. The Project Arborist shall 
submit a letter and photos to the Project Planner verifying that all tree protection 
measures are properly implemented prior to the issuance of the first building 
permit. 
o All approved and installed Heritage Tree protection measures shall be 
maintained throughout the period of construction. The Project Arborist shall 
complete inspections on an as-need basis during the construction period and 
shall submit a monthly report of his/her findings in a letter sent by fax or email to 
the City Planner assigned to this project. (PLANNING) 
109 * MM CUL-2.1 - Archaeological monitoring shall occur for removal of the 
asphalt/concrete pavement, potholing, tree removal, and other ground disturbing 
activities prior to construction. If a sufficient subsurface sample has not been 
observed and documented by an archaeologist, mechanical presence/absence 
exploration shall occur to access the stratigraphy for the entire project APE. If this 
monitoring and trenching effort cannot be considered because of construction 
deadlines and methods, a suite of mechanical coring at both locations can be 
implemented as a logistical alternative. The depth would be commensurate with 
proposed impacts detailed in the vertical component to the Project APE. Given 
the size of the core samples, the samples may not yield sufficient information to 
make reliable conclusion as to the intactness of a potential archaeological 
resource. If archaeological deposits or features that appear eligible to the 
National Register of Historic Places are identified during exploration, an 
archaeological research design and work/treatment plan shall be prepared to 
facilitate archaeological excavation and evaluated any feature or deposit 
discovered to the National Register. Native American involvement and monitors 
will be needed for any Native American resources identified.

--- page 44 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021  
Page 35 of 43 
 
If buried, or previously unrecognized archaeological deposits or materials of any 
kind are inadvertently exposed during any construction activity, work within 50 
feet of the find shall cease until a qualified archaeologist can assess the find and 
provide recommendations for further treatment, if warranted. Construction and 
potential impacts to the area(s) within a radius determined by the archaeologist 
shall not recommence until the assessment is complete and accepted by the 
Community Development Department. (PLANNING) 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
110 HOLIDAY CONSTRUCTION MORATORIUM – Due to concerns for businesses within 
the Downtown area during the holiday season (November 20 to January 1), there 
shall be no construction activities within the right-of-way which would create lane 
closures, eliminate parking, create pedestrian detours, or other activities that  
may create a major disturbance as determined by the City Engineer. For  
purposes of this condition, the limits of the Downtown area shall be defined as: 
between El Camino Real on the west and Delaware Street on the east, Tilton 
Avenue on the north, and Fifth Avenue on the south. The prohibition shall also 
include the 3rd and 4th Avenue corridors between Delaware Street and U.S. 101. 
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
111 MATERIAL HAULING AND CONSTRUCTION WORKER PARKING - For material 
delivery vehicles equal to, or larger than two-axle, six-tire single unit truck (SU) 
size or larger as defined by FHWA Standards, the applicant shall submit a truck 
hauling route that conforms to City of San Mateo Municipal Code Section 
11.28.040 for the approval of the City Engineer. The project sponsor shall require 
contractors to prohibit trucks from using “compression release engine brakes” on 
residential streets. The haul route for this project shall be: 
To Project Site: US 101 North/South to 3rd Ave West to Claremont Street to 
Project Site. 
From Project Site: Project Site to Claremont Street to 4th Avenue to US 101 North 
or South, or as approved by the City Engineer. 
A letter from the applicant confirming the intention to use this hauling route shall 
be submitted to the Department of Public Works, and approved, prior to the 
issuance of any City permits. All material hauling activities including but not 
limited to, adherence to the approved route, hours of operation, staging of 
materials, dust control and street maintenance shall be the responsibility of the 
applicant. All storage and office trailers will be kept off the public right-of-way. 
Tracking of dirt onto City streets and walks will not be allowed. The applicant 
must provide an approved method of cleaning tires and trimming loads on site. 
Any job-related dirt and/or debris that impacts the public right of way shall be 
removed immediately. No wash down of dirt into storm drains will be allowed. 
All material hauling activities shall be done in accordance with applicable City

--- page 45 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 36 of 43 
 
ordinances and conditions of approval. Violation of such may be cause for 
suspension of work. 
The applicant shall provide a construction-parking plan that minimizes the effect 
of construction worker parking in the neighborhood and shall include an estimate 
of the number of workers that will be present on the site during the various 
phases of construction and indicate where sufficient off-street parking will be 
utilized and identify any locations for off-site material deliveries.  Said plan shall 
be approved by the City Engineer prior to issuance of City permits and shall be 
complied with at all times during construction. Failure to enforce the parking 
plan may result in suspension of the City permits. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
112 PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES - The following provision to control 
traffic congestion, noise, and dust shall be followed during site excavation, 
grading and construction: 
(A) 
Construction activities related to the issuance of any Public Works permit 
shall be restricted to the weekday between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Please note, 
however, that no work shall be allowed to take place within the City right-of-way 
after 5:00 p.m. In addition, no work being done under the issuance of a Public 
Works encroachment permit may be performed on the weekend unless prior 
approvals have been granted by Public Works. Earth haul and materials delivery 
to and from the site, including truck arrivals and departures to and from the site, 
will be prohibited between the weekday hours of 4:00 p.m.  5:30 p.m. Signs 
outlining these restrictions shall be posted at conspicuous locations on site. The 
signs shall be per the City Standard Drawing for posting construction hours. The 
sign shall be kept free of graffiti at all times. Contact the Public Works 
Department to obtain sample City Standard sign outlining hours of operation. 
The allowed hours of Public Works construction activities may be waived or 
modified through an exemption, for limited periods, if the City Engineer finds 
that: 
(i) 
The following criteria are met: 
(a) 
Permitting extended hours of construction will decrease the total time 
needed to complete the project thus mitigating the total amount of noise 
associated with the project as a whole; or 
(b) 
Permitting extended hours of construction are required to accommodate 
design or engineering requirements, such as a large concrete pour. Such a need 
would be determined by the project's design engineer and require approval of 
the City Engineer. 
(c) 
An emergency situation exists where the construction work is necessary to 
correct an unsafe or dangerous condition resulting in obvious and eminent peril 
to public health and safety. If such a condition exists, the City may waive any of 
the remaining requirements outlined below. 
(ii) 
The exemption will not conflict with any other condition of approval

--- page 46 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021  
Page 37 of 43 
 
required by the City to mitigate significant impacts. 
(iii) 
The contractor or developer will notify residential and commercial 
occupants of property adjacent to the construction site of the hours of 
construction activity which may impact the area. This notification must be 
provided three days prior to the start of the extended construction activity. 
(iv) 
The approved hours of construction activity will be posted at the 
construction site in a place and manner that can be easily viewed by any 
interested member of the public. 
The City Engineer may revoke the exemption at any time if the contractor or 
developer fails to abide by the conditions of exemption or if it is determined that 
the peace, comfort and tranquility of the occupants of adjacent residential or 
commercial properties are impaired because of the location and nature of the 
construction. The waiver application must be submitted to the Public Works 
Construction Inspector ten (10) working days prior to the requested date of 
waiver. 
(B) 
All construction vehicles should be properly maintained and equipped with 
exhaust mufflers that meet State standards. 
(C) 
Newly disturbed soil surfaces shall be watered down regularly by a water 
trucks or by other approved method maintained on site during all grading 
operations.  Construction grading activity shall be discontinued in wind conditions 
that in the opinion of the Public Works Construction Inspector cause excessive 
neighborhood dust problems.  Wash down of dirt and debris into storm drain 
systems will not be allowed. 
(D) 
Construction activities shall be scheduled so that paving and foundation 
placement begin immediately upon completion of grading operation. 
(E) 
All aggregate materials transported to and from the site shall be covered in 
accordance with Section 23114 of the California Vehicle Code during transit to 
and from the site. 
(F) 
Prior to issuance of any permit, the applicant shall submit any applicable 
pedestrian or traffic detour plans, to the satisfaction of the City Engineer, for any 
lane or sidewalk closures. The detour plan shall comply with Part 6, Temporary 
Traffic Control, of the State of California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control 
Devices (MUTCD), 2012, and standard construction practices. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
113 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – The applicant shall perform all 
construction activities in accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management 
and Discharge Control Rules and Regulations (SMMC 7.38.020), and the San 
Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SMCWPPP) by reference. 
Detailed information can be located at: 
https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-stormwater-pollution/with-new-redevel 
opment/construction-best-practices/ (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 47 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 38 of 43 
 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the use permitted by this 
planning application occupies the premises. 
 
City Attorney (PA) 
114 PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 
27.02.210-Violations of Planning Application Conditions, any violation of any of 
the conditions of approval is unlawful and will subject the applicant to the 
penalties set forth in Chapter 1.04-General Penalty of the San Mateo Municipal 
Code as well as any other available legal remedies. (CITY ATTORNEY) 
115 INDEMNIFICATION – The applicant will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the 
City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents  
from and against any costs, claims, or liabilities arising out of the approval of this 
planning application, including, without limitation, any award of attorney fees 
that might result from third party challenge. If applicant is required to defend the 
City, the City shall retain the right to select the counsel who shall defend the City. 
(CITY ATTORNEY) 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
116 DESIGNATED EMERGENCY VEHICLE ACCESS - All required Emergency Vehicle 
Accessways, including red curbs, curb lettering and fire lane signs shall be 
maintained at all times that the use permitted by this planning application 
occupies the premises. (FIRE) 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
117 CONFORMANCE WITH APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION AT ALL TIMES - All 
physical improvements, uses, and operational requirements authorized by the 
approved planning application shall substantially conform at all times that the use 
permitted by this planning application occupies the premises with the approved 
planning application, including: drawings, plans, materials samples, building 
colors, the written project description, and other items submitted as part of the 
approved planning application. Any proposed modifications to the approved 
planning application must be reviewed by the Chief of Planning and/or Zoning 
Administrator. The Chief of Planning and/or Zoning Administrator shall determine 
whether the proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved 
planning application, or whether a planning application for a modification of a 
previously approved planning application is required to be submitted to permit 
the proposed project modifications, as required by San Mateo Municipal Code 
Section 27.08.080 Modifications. (PLANNING)

--- page 48 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021  
Page 39 of 43 
 
 
Police Department (PA) 
118 SITE LIGHTING STANDARDS- Exterior security lighting in compliance with the 
Building Security Code “Exterior Security Lighting” (San Mateo Municipal Code 
Section 23.54.060) shall be provided and maintained at all times that the use 
permitted by this planning application occupies the premises. Site lighting shall 
comply with the requirement of an average illuminance of 1 foot-candle, a 
minimum illuminance of 0.3 foot-candle, and a uniformity ratio not to exceed 4:1 
average to minimum. Light sources shall be capable of producing a “bright white” 
light with a color temperature between 3000K and 4000K and a color rendering 
index (CRI) of at least 65 unless otherwise approved. This lighting standard is 
applicable to all parking lots, driveways, circulation areas, aisles, passageways, 
recesses, Railroad Avenue sidewalk adjacent to the residential structure, and 
grounds contiguous to all buildings. The lighting system shall be so designed as to 
limit light spill beyond property lines and to shield the light source from view 
from off site, except for the portion of the Railroad Avenue sidewalk adjacent to 
the residential structure. (POLICE) 
119 PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS FOR TALL BUILDINGS, ACCESS AND SECURITY - 
The applicant shall allow 24 hour, 7 day per week access to the dedicated public 
safety communications radio server rack and antenna(s) for maintenance 
purposes at all times that the use permitted by this planning application occupies 
the premises.  If the City installs radio equipment, applicant shall take reasonable 
measures to secure and safeguard City equipment from theft or vandalism. 
(POLICE) 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
120 POST CONSTRUCTION BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – The project shall 
comply with all City of San Mateo’s ordinances, policies, and processes regarding 
the post-construction treatment of stormwater runoff. Specifically, a Stormwater 
Management Plan (SWMP) will be developed, prior to issuance of building 
permits for project construction, to ensure compliance with City of San Mateo 
and Municipal Regional Permit (MRP) requirements. The SWMP will meet the 
criteria for stormwater protection outlined in the San Mateo Countywide Water 
Pollution Prevention Program C.3 Stormwater Technical Guidance. 
The project shall implement site design and source control BMPs for minimizing 
the volume of runoff and pollution in runoff to the extent practicable, per the 
MRP. These BMPs may include the following: 
• Disconnected downspouts that are directed into landscape areas; 
• Minimization of impervious surfaces and increased use of permeable

--- page 49 ---


--- page 50 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 39 of 43   
 
 
pavement where feasible; 
• Location of all storm drain inlets to be stenciled with, “No Dumping! Flows to 
Bay” to discourage illegal dumping; 
• Location and design of trash enclosures (all shall be covered) and materials 
handling areas; 
• Use of effective, site-specific erosion and sediment control methods during 
post-construction periods. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
121 PUBLIC SIDEWALK ON PRIVATE PROPERTY - The portion of private property at the 
corner of 5th Avenue and Claremont Street within the 25' corner sight triangle as 
shown on the approved Planning Application plans shall be accessible to the 
Public. The land shall be kept free and clear of all obstructions and paved per City 
sidewalk and current accessibility standards. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
122 HYDROLOGY AND WATER QUALITY - The following conditions, based on RWQCB 
requirements and City of San Mateo Standard Conditions of Approval, shall be 
implemented by the project in order to reduce potential construction-related 
water quality impacts: 
• Construction best management practices (BMPs) shall be implemented for 
reducing the volume of runoff and pollution in runoff to the maximum extent 
practicable during site excavation, grading, and construction. In accordance with 
the City’s standards, these BMPs will include, but will not be limited to: 
o Avoid or minimize excavation and grading activities during wet weather, unless 
the City approves a winter erosion control plan submitted by the applicant. 
o Use effective, site-specific erosion and sediment control methods during the 
construction periods. Provide temporary cover of all disturbed surfaces to help 
control erosion during construction. 
o Provide permanent cover as soon as is practical to stabilize the disturbed 
surfaces after construction has been completed. 
o Protect existing storm drain inlets in the project area from sedimentation with 
filter fabric fences gravel bags block and gravel filters. 
o Cover and stabilize stockpiled soil and materials with tarps, geotextile fabric, 
hydroseeding and/or erosion control blankets 
o Install berms or silt fencing around stockpiled materials to prevent stormwater 
runoff from transporting sediment off-site 
• The applicant shall comply with the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program 
Construction (SWPPC) permit requirements and prepare a Stormwater Pollution 
Prevention Plan (SWPPP) (San Mateo Municipal Code Section 7.39).

--- page 51 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 40 of 43 
 
 
• The project does not propose substantial excavation and is not expected to 
encounter groundwater; however, groundwater levels at the site are relatively 
shallow and the project could require dewatering of subsurface groundwater 
during construction. In accordance with the City’s Municipal Code (SMMC 
7.38.150), the Director of Public Works may approve the discharge of ground 
waters to the sanitary sewer if the source is deemed unacceptable by State and 
Federal authorities for discharge to surface waters of the United States, whether 
pretreated or untreated, and for which no reasonable alternative method of 
disposal is available. Following the verification of the applicable local, state  
and/or federal approvals, a Discharge Plan will be approved and monitored by the 
Public Works Department. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
123 POST CONSTRUCTION BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – In accordance 
with the City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control Rules and 
Regulations (SMMC 7.38.020), and the San Mateo Countywide Stormwater 
Management Plan (SWMP) by reference, the applicant shall: 
 
A. Developer or occupant/property manager shall inspect private storm drain 
facilities at least two (2) times per year and sweep parking lots immediately prior 
to and once during the storm season. 
 
B. The applicant shall pay a fee on a yearly basis for cost associated with, but not 
limited to, biannual inspection of the private storm drain facilities, emergency 
maintenance needed to protect public health or watercourses, and facility 
replacement or repair in the event that the treatment facility is no longer able to 
meet performance standards or has deteriorated. The annual fee shall be in the 
amount of $261.00 with an annual increase, if necessary to recover the City’s 
costs of inspection, in the amount of any CPI increase. 
 
C. Label new and redeveloped storm drain inlets with the phrase “No Dumping – 
Drains to Bay” plaques to alert the public to the destination of storm water and to 
prevent direct discharge of pollutants into the storm drain. Template ordering 
information is available from the Department of Public Works. 
 
D. All process equipment, oils fuels, solvents, coolants, fertilizers, pesticides, and 
similar chemical products, as well as petroleum based wastes, tallow, and grease 
planned for storage outdoors shall be stored in covered containers at all times. 
(PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 52 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application 
Conditions of Approval 
PA-2019-033, City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP 
As Approved on August 17, 2020, And Modified on November 16, 2020, And May 17, 2021 
Page 41 of 43   
 
 
* MITIGATION MEASURE ‐ This measure mitigates adverse environmental effects identified in 
the environmental document. Monitoring procedures are contained within the condition of 
approval. A change in the condition may affect the validity of the current environmental 
document, and a new or amended environmental document may be required.

--- page 53 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO PLANNING APPLICATION
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
PA-2021-013, 480 E. 4TH AVENUE (KIKU CROSSING) AND 400 E. 5TH AVENUE (PARKING 
GARAGE) – SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW MODIFICATION
480 E 4TH AVE A, SAN MATEO, CA 94401-3349; 400 E 
5TH AVE A, SAN MATEO, CA 94401-3349
 PARCEL # 034183060
AS APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL ON 5/17/2021 
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of 
approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance. 
Additional language within a condition may further define the timing of required compliance.
The following conditions shall be addressed on the construction plans submitted for any 
DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING PERMIT, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, and shall be 
satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit is issued first, or if another deadline is 
specified in a condition, at that time.
Parks and Recreation Department (PA)
 1 Prior to Building Permit issuance, the arborist report/tree protection plan shall be 
reproduced on one or more full-size sheets of the plan set, consistent with the 
arborist report/tree protection plan submitted for PA-2019-033. (PARKS AND 
RECREATION)
 2 Prior to Building Permit issuance, the site plan containing tree protection 
measures shall be incorporated into the full plan set, consistent with the site plan 
containing tree protection measures submitted for PA-2019-033. (PARKS AND 
RECREATION)
The following conditions shall be addressed on the construction plans submitted for A 
BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE SUPERSTRUCTURE and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of this 
permit, or if another deadline is specified in a condition, at that time.
Public Works Department (PA)
 3 UTILITY CLEARANCES AND UTILITY BOXES – Plans shall show compliance with 
required clearances between proposed an existing utilities and utility 
appurtenances. Proposed utility boxes and vaults shall be shown out of the Public 
Right-of-Way to the maximum extent feasible. The proposed utility box locations 
shall be refined during the Building Permit stage and reviewed and approved by 
the Director of Public Works prior to Superstructure Building Permit issuance for 
each structure. The applicant’s Licensed Surveyor shall prepare Plat and Legal 
Descriptions for required easements on the parcels for review and approval. 
(PUBLIC WORKS)
EXHIBIT B

--- page 54 ---
City of San Mateo Planning Application
Conditions of Approval
PA-2021-013, 480 E. 4th Avenue (Kiku Crossing) and 400 E. 5th Avenue (Parking Garage) – Site 
Plan and Architectural Review Modification
As Approved on 5/17/2021
Page 2 of 2
* MITIGATION MEASURE ‐ This measure mitigates adverse environmental effects identified in
the environmental document. Monitoring procedures are contained within the condition of 
approval. A change in the condition may affect the validity of the current environmental 
document, and a new or amended environmental document may be required.

--- page 55 ---
April 26, 2021 
 
Phillip Brennan 
City of San Mateo Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave. San Mateo, CA 94403 
650-522-7218 
 
 
RE:  Kiku Crossing (formerly San Mateo Downtown Opportunity Sites)         PA-2019-033 
Site Planning and Architectural Review (SPAR) Modification to approved entitlement 
drawings for 480 East 4th Avenue residential development  
 
 
Dear Phillip, 
 
Below please find a list of design changes made to the Kiku Crossing residential development at 
480 East 4th Avenue after the approved entitlement application drawing set dated June 15, 
2020. The list below consists of improvements to the design that were necessitated by the need 
for the project to avoid conflicts with existing and proposed utilities, further development of the 
design for constructability, and to ensure adherence to MidPen Housing’s rigorous design 
standards, which are updated semi-annually in response to best practices and affordable 
housing financing requirements. 
 
G001 
Overall building floor area has been reduced to optimize project efficiency. Floor Area 
of the residential building on 4th Ave. has been changed from 234,350 SF to 211,970 SF 
resulting in an FAR reduction from 4.63 to 4.20 on the 4th Ave residential site, and from 
4.24 to 3.93 across both sites as noted in the Project Summary. 
 
G002 
Building areas modified in the tabulations, unit mix slightly modified to increase the 
number of large family, two-bedroom units and increased ADA unit count, modification 
of average unit size. Increase in protected on-site bike parking count based on unit size 
revisions.  Total unit quantity of 225 remains the same. 
 
A201 through A208 (Site and Floor Plans) 
Building is pulled further back from the property lines at all four sides: At 4th Avenue to 
avoid conflict with the overhead high voltage power lines, at 5th Avenue to avoid 
conflict with the proposed underground utilities required by the new residential and 
garage structures, and at S. Railroad Ave. to allow for a deeper landscaped buffer from 
the railroad tracks. At S. Claremont the building is slightly set further back to allow 
additional landscaping at the sidewalk and more generous ground level decks to 
enhance the pedestrian experience. Central courtyard has been slightly modified as 
part of development of the floor plans. 
 
A201 
Building utility spaces along 5th Avenue have been refined and developed. 
 
A205 
Level 5 bridge lobby has been enclosed for acoustic reasons to protect the interior from 
the train noise. 
 
A207 
Occupied roof deck has been developed. Fitness room and bathrooms have been 
removed due to acoustical concerns for the residential units below and due to updates

--- page 56 ---
Kiku Crossing / BAR Project No. 17009 
PA-2019-033  
April 26, 2021 
Page 2 of 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to MidPen Housing’s design standards, which are eliminating fitness rooms due to low usage. The 
previously proposed fitness room was 1,412 sf.  
 
A208 
Roof plan is in progress. Equipment and Solar PV locations are in coordination, and screening elements 
are to be provided. 
 
A301 through A304 (elevations) 
Window configuration has been updated to coordinate better with unit interior layout. Slight 
modifications have been made to the massing at the corners. All elevations reflect the plan changes which 
slightly pull back the building from the property lines.  
 
Parapets have increased in height per EBM requirements. EBM (Exterior Building Maintenance) 
requirements are to provide 42” from the roof surface to the top of the adjacent surface for fall 
protection. This can be accomplished with a parapet or guard barrier. For aesthetic consistency, 
we have minimized the use of guards and adjusted the parapets to achieve the 42” required height. No 
design changes from the 03/30/21 submittal set. 
 
Windows and brick pattern at the ground level has been developed. 
 
A302 
6’ high plexiglass screening element has been added at the 7th level roof deck to protect the outdoor 
space from train noise as required by acoustical. 
 
A304 
Utility doors and brick configuration at ground level have been modified as utility space plans have been 
further developed. Expression of bridge interface at building has been developed. 
 
A334-5  Building Materials sheets shared by email have been added to this 04/26/21 submittal. No design changes 
from the 06/16/20 submittal set. 
 
A511  
Open space calculations have been updated, increasing from 21,323sf to 21,914sf the common open 
space provided. 
 
A601 
Cornice design has been developed and detail provided as required in entitlement conditions of approval. 
 
L101       Landscape has been adjusted accordingly to reflect revised building layout, the existing and new utilities.  
Changes are as follows: 
 
1) Street count increased from 30 to 35. We have (1) fewer street trees and (5) additional trees on site, 
and this is reflected on sheet L101 and the L404 schedule for new onsite tree planting.    
2) Plaza and courtyard design has not changed programmatically, however concrete paving and score 
pattern have been revised with a Japanese textile floral pattern aligning with the new project name, 
Kiku Crossing.  Kiku is a chrysanthemum flower and the project name celebrates the past Japanese 
American floral industries that flourished during the early 1900s.  
 
L102 
Roof deck plan has been adjusted with new architectural plan.  
 
L104 
Section drawings have been adjusted to match the current layout. 
 
L404 
Required Tree planting form has been adjusted to the new proposed tree count and sizes. Refer to sheets 
L101 and L104 and the above response for L101. 
 
C1.0 
Overhead electrical lines adjacent to project were surveyed and have been added to topo.

--- page 57 ---
Kiku Crossing / BAR Project No. 17009 
PA-2019-033  
April 26, 2021 
Page 3 of 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C2.0 
Rolled curb at building’s trash room has been adjusted to match revised building layout. Proposed 
crosswalk striping at intersection of S Claremont and E. 5th Ave has been changed to match existing 
striping within vicinity of project. Relocated memorial street light was slightly adjusted to reside outside 
of PG&E vault clear working space. 
 
C3.0 
Proposed grading information has been updated accordingly based on revised architectural and landscape 
layouts. Callouts for deepened footings have been added at locations where onsite biotreatment areas 
are close to building footprint. Callouts for deepened curb have been added at offsite biotreatment areas. 
Cut/fill estimates have been updated and represent only the residential scope of work.  On Sheet C3.0, 
grading points shown are consistent with each DMA. The area in each DMA is be graded such that runoff 
stays within their respective DMA and leads to that DMA’s treatment area. Grade breaks and directional 
slopes have been added to sheet C3.0 to better illustrate that roof runoff stays within their respective 
DMA. 
 
C4.0 
Onsite storm drain system has been adjusted based on the revised architectural and landscape layouts. 
Callouts for deepened footings have been added at locations where storm drain piping is close to building 
footprint. Connections to city storm drain system at corner of S Claremont and E 5th Ave have been 
revised to ensure proper clearance at utility intersections. Sewer laterals have been modified; the project 
will now utilize two 8” sewer laterals. Water BFP’s have been moved inside building; street access will be 
provided.  The planter on the Southeast corner of the property has been shifted slightly and a 3'-0” clear 
radius callout has been added at hydrant locations. 
 
 
Joint trench plans have been revised to (a) ensure new permanent power is provided via underground tie-
in (b) accommodate construction staging in which permanent new garage building power for the 400 E. 
5th Ave. site is achieved prior to permanent new residential building power for the 480 E. 4th Ave. site, so 
that the garage may be used by the public as early as possible and (c) meet PG&E load requirements for 
the 225-unit all-electric residential building. 
 
1) Permanent power tie-in: 
Plans were revised to tie into existing underground 12KV instead of installing a new pole. The 
underground tie-in will involve installing a new #7 vault (subsurface switch interrupter) on the corner of S. 
Claremont and E. 5th Ave, under the sidewalk adjacent to San Mateo Lumber, to tie into existing 12KV. 
PG&E confirmed that they can transfer loads from existing 12KV to another circuit to avoid shutting down 
power to the neighborhood during this work.  Installing a larger pole to accommodate a new primary 
riser, and therefore avoiding installation of a new #7 vault, is not feasible as all existing poles on 5th 
Avenue are overloaded with equipment (i.e., existing primary risers, transformer, switches, special cross 
arm configuration, some pole already has existing multiple telecommunication risers, etc.).  
 
2) Residential temporary power: 
Residential temporary power will be provided via a new conduit that extends from the 12KV tie in to a 
new #6 vault (sub surface junction) and new #7 vault for a temporary subsurface transformer under the 
sidewalk of the 480 E 4th Ave. site, along S. Claremont.  The new #7 vault will be removed prior to 
construction completion, but the #6 vault must remain per PG&E requirements.  
 
3) Garage temporary power: 
Garage temporary power will be provided by a generator, so no work is reflected in the Preliminary Utility 
Plan. 
 
4) Garage permanent power: 
Garage permanent power requires a new #6 vault (sub surface switch) within the property line of the 480 
E 4th Ave. site, along E. 5th Ave., and will connect via conduit that crosses E. 5th Ave., to terminate inside 
the garage transformer room. The new #6 vault is needed so that the garage can be energized and used

--- page 58 ---
Kiku Crossing / BAR Project No. 17009 
PA-2019-033  
April 26, 2021 
Page 4 of 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
by the public prior to completion of the residential building. A new #7 vault is also required to the south 
of the intersection of S. Claremont and 5th Ave. 
 
5) Residential permanent power: 
The number of underground vaults providing residential permanent power increased from 2 to 3 to 
accommodate increased load requirements for the 225-unit all-electric residential building. The 3 new #7 
vaults (UCD subsurface transformers) will be installed within the property line.  The project received a 
waiver from PG&E Rule 15, allowing for the UCDs as proposed. 
 
6) Relocation of existing pad mounted equipment and electrical vault on 4th Avenue site:  
The relocation of the existing pad mounted equipment on the 480 E. 4th Ave. site requires a new #7 box, 
consistent with the approach presented at entitlement.  
 
7) Proposed new telecom routing and boxes were revised to accommodate new construction staging of 
new temporary residential power, garage, and residential permanent power.  
 
Fiber conduit routing and F44 Fiber boxes were inserted. The conduit routing starts at central of 
South Claremont extending east and south on E. 5th Ave, then terminates inside MPOE room of 
Residential Bldg. and finally crosses street to enter MPOE room at Garage building. Two (2) F44 
boxes total. 
 
CATV and AT&T were inserted. Tie in is to an existing joint pole just a few feet north of garage 
building on east of E. 5th. New conduit to be installed from existing pole extending across the 
street to new CATV boxes (B36) and AT&T boxes (T4) then run south to terminate inside 
Residential building MPOE room and finally crosses street to terminate inside Garage MPOE 
room. One (1) B36 and one (1) T4 boxes total. 
 
Full joint trench plans for utility relocation, temporary power and permanent power can be provided upon 
request for detailed review.   
 
 
C5.0 
Drainage Management Areas (DMA), treatment area sizing, and calculations have been updated.  
 
While the 5th Avenue Garage component of the PA-2019-033 development is not a focus of the BAR Architects 
Kiku Crossing residential scope, we are noting the following for informational purposes: 
 
One of four garage façade panels was eliminated based on City feedback to include a solid wall 
behind the façade panels to limit vandalism risk.  
 
Adding solid walls behind three garage façade panels necessitated removal of one of the four original 
panels to maintain openness calculations necessary to avoid mechanical ventilation for the garage 
structure. 
 
Reference IPD sheet A3.02: Garage South Elevation Comparison Drawings. 
 
 
 
Regards, 
 
 
 
 
 
Cynthia Strawn 
BAR Architects

--- page 59 ---
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DATA FORM
NAME: 480 E. 4th Avenue
PA-2021-013
LOT SIZE: 50,587 SF (1.16 ac)
ZONING: CBD/S
APN: 033-183-060
FLOOR AREA:
480 E. 4th Avenue
APPROVED1
234,350 SF
PROPOSED1
211,970 SF
MAXIMUM ALLOWED
151,761 SF
FLOOR AREA RATIO:
         480 E. 4th Avenue
Combined w/Parking Garage
4.63 FAR
 4.24 FAR2
4.20 FAR
  3.93 FAR2
-
3.00 FAR
BLDG. HEIGHT:
74’-5”
74’-5”
88’3
SETBACKS:
400 E. 5th Ave property
North (S. Claremont St.):
East (E. 5th Ave.):
South (S. Railroad Ave.):
West (E. 4th Ave.):
APPROVED (varies)
2’-9” to 6’-9”
4’-0” to 7’-0”
1’-8” to 6’-3”
3’-0” to 21’-0”
PROPOSED (varies)
2’-11” to 8’-0”
6’-5” to 9’-9”
5’-8.5” to 9’-0”
6’-2” to 24’-3”
MINIMUM REQUIRED
0’
0’
0’
0’
UNIT TYPE:
Studio
1-Bedroom
2-Bedroom
3-Bedroom
TOTAL UNITS:
APPROVED
65
48
53
59
225
PROPOSED
66
41
59
59
225
MINIMUM REQUIRED
N/A
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY:
93.36 units/net acre
93.36 units/net acre
Unlimited w/State Density 
Bonus4
BICYCLE PARKING:
TOTAL:
APPROVED
Short-term       
0.05/65 = 3.25
0.05/48 = 2.40
0.10/53 = 5.30
0.15/59 = 8.85
20
Long-term
1.0/65 = 65
1.0/48 = 48
1.25/53 = 66.25
1.50/59 = 88.5
268
PROPOSED
Short-term
0.05/66 = 3.3
0.05/41 = 2.05
0.10/59 = 5.9
0.15/59 = 8.85
20
 Long-term
1.0/66 = 66
1.0/41 = 41
1.25/59 = 73.25
1.50/59 = 88.5
269
MINIMUM REQUIRED
Short-term
0.05/unit 
0.05/unit
0.10/unit
0.15/unit
Long-term
1.0/unit
1.0/unit
1.25/unit
1.50/unit
FOOTNOTES:
1.
Net floor area; exempted areas not included.
2.
Increased FAR provided via an approved State Density Bonus concession.
3.
AB 1763 allows qualifying 100 percent affordable housing project within a half-mile of a major transit stop to build up 
to three additional stories or up to 33 feet in additional height. 
4.
Base density is 50 units per acre, or 121 units (2.41 acres). The provisions of AB 1763 exempt the housing 
development from any maximum controls on density when qualifying projects are located within a half-mile of a 
major transit stop.

--- page 60 ---
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/26/2021 11:09:29 AM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/San Mateo Downtown - A.rvt
2021
TEL:
CONTACT:
EMAIL:
ARCHITECT:
BAR ARCHITECTS
901 BATTERY STREET, SUITE 300
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111
415-293-5700
PATRICIA CENTENO
PCENTENO@BARARCH.COM
TEL:
CONTACT:
EMAIL:
OWNER:
MP DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO ASSOCIATES, LP
303 VINTAGE PARK DR, SUITE 250
FOSTER CITY, CA 94404
650-357-9766
MOLLIE NABER
MOLLIE.NABER@MIDPEN-HOUSING.ORG
TEL:
CONTACT:
EMAIL:
CIVIL ENGINEER
BKF ENGINEERS
1730 NORTH FIRST STREET, SUITE 600
SAN JOSE, CA 95112
408-467-9154
DOUG PETERSEN
DPETERSEN@BKF.COM
TEL:
CONTACT:
EMAIL:
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT
MILLER COMPANY LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTS
1585 FOLSOM STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94103
415-252-7288
MAYA NAGASAKA
NAGASAKA@MILLERCOMP.COM
TEL:
CONTACT:
EMAIL:
STRUCTURAL ENGINEER:
KPFF
45 FREMONT STREET, 28TH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94105
415-989-1004
DAVID ROSSI
DAVID.ROSSI@KPFF.COM
TEL:
CONTACT:
EMAIL:
MECHANICAL ENGINEER:
EMERALD CITY ENGINEERS, INC
21705 HIGHWAY
LYNWOOD, WA 98036
425-741-1200
JOHN TOMAN
JTOMAN@EMERALDCITYENG.COM
TEL:
CONTACT:
EMAIL:
ACOUSTICAL ENGINEER
RGD ACOUSTICS, INC
22 PELICAN WAY, SUITE 100
SAN RAFEAL, CA 94901
415-464-0150
HAROLD GOLDBERG
HGOLDBERG@RGDACOUSTICS.COM
PROJECT TEAM
KIKU CROSSING
480 EAST 4TH AVE 
SAN MATEO, CA 
TEL:
CONTACT:
EMAIL:
JOINT TRENCH ENGINEER
VIZION UTILITY PARTNERS
6400 VILLAGE PARKWAY, SUITE 204
DUBLIN, CA 94568
925-682-1114
TIM NGUYEN
TNGUYEN@VIZIONUTILITY.COM
TEL:
CONTACT:
EMAIL:
PLUMBINGENGINEER:
EMERALD CITY ENGINEERS, INC
21705 HIGHWAY
LYNWOOD, WA 98036
425-741-1200
JOHN TOMAN
JTOMAN@EMERALDCITYENG.COM
TEL:
CONTACT:
EMAIL:
ELECTRICAL ENGINEER:
EMERALD CITY ENGINEERS, INC
21705 HIGHWAY
LYNWOOD, WA 98036
425-741-1200
ADAM FRENCH
AFRENCH@EMERALDCITYENG.COM
03/04/20
ENTITLEMENT APPLICATION - 7 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
04/06/20 ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL- 7 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
06/01/20 ENTITLEMENT SUBMITTAL - 7 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
06/15/20 ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL - 7 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
03/01/21 ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL - 7 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
03/30/21 ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL - 7 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
04/26/21 ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL - 7 STORY HOUSING BLOCK

--- page 61 ---
LEVEL 01b (121.5')
0' - 6"
LEVEL 01b (121.5')
0' - 6"
LEVEL 02
12' - 2"
LEVEL 03
22' - 2"
LEVEL 04
32' - 2"
LEVEL 05
42' - 2"
LEVEL 06
52' - 2"
TO PLATE
71' - 2"
TO PLATE
71' - 2"
LEVEL 07
62' - 2"
PL
PL
S CLAREMONT ST
S RAILROAD AVE
ADJACENT GRADE
122.5'
ADJACENT GRADE
117.75'
1' - 0"
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
69' - 8" HT TO TO PLATE
5' - 10"
211' - 8"
3' - 0"
3' - 9"
70' - 8"
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
74' - 5" HT TO TO PLATE
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
78' - 6"HT TO TO PARAPET
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
83' - 3"HT TO TO PARAPET
TO PARAPET
81' - 6"
TO PARAPET
81' - 6"
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 10 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 11" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
10' - 7" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
3/30/2021 12:06:28 PM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/San Mateo Downtown - A.rvt
KIKU CROSSING
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS - EAST
2021
A304
03/30/21
1
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
1/16" = 1'-0"
A302
1
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - EAST - HOUSING BLOCK - STREET
A304
ENTITLEMENT
CURRENT
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 02
13' - 8"
LEVEL 03
23' - 8"
LEVEL 04
33' - 8"
LEVEL 05
43' - 8"
LEVEL 06
53' - 8"
1
A321
________________________
1
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
PL
PL
S RAILROAD AVE
S CLAREMONT ST
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
74' - 5" HT TO PLATE
ADJACENT GRADE
122.5'
ADJACENT GRADE
117.75'
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
LEVEL 07
63' - 8"
3
1
2
9
2
3
1
10
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
69' - 8" HT TO PLATE
1' - 0"
70' - 8"
3' - 9"
2
4
2
12
1/16" = 1'-0"
A302
1
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - EAST - HOUSING BLOCK - STREET
A304
ENTITLEMENT
CURRENT
63' - 8"
23' - 8"
43' - 8"
53' - 8"
33' - 8"
72' - 8"
72' - 8"
AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED
2' - 0"
2' - 0"
13' - 8"
AS APPROVED
TO PARAPET
78' - 5"
TO PARAPET
78' - 5"
8' - 10 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
10' - 7" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 11' FF TO CLG HEIGHT
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
80' - 2" HT TO TO PARAPET
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
75' - 5" HT TO TO PARAPET
8' - 11' FF TO CLG HEIGHT
10' - 7" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
3'-0"
2'-4"
#7: UCD work and easement
requirement. CANNOT MOVE.
30" Bay projection at Level 3
- Height is 20'-21' above
sidewalk elevation.
#6: CAN MOVE BOX TO
BACK OF SIDEWALK
Doors required to swing out:
1. Required by code.
2. Cannot alcove door. Not
enough space in room to fit
equipment and alcove
30" Bay projection at Level 3
- Height is between 20'-21'
above sidewalk elevation.
Bay projections don't
encroach over UCD boxes
UCD'S:
DOOR SWING CAN ENCROACH
UCD WORK SPACE AND
EASEMENT. 
CAN MOVE UCD'S TO BACK
OF SIDEWALK
3'-0"
2'-4"
#7:
UCD work and easment required.
CAN MOVE BOX TOWARD
BLDG BUT WILL STILL
ENCROACH SIDEWALK
LEVEL 1 PLAN - 5TH AVENUE
2
20'-2"
1
EXHIBIT 
4.13.21
PROPOSED DRY
UTILITY REVISIONS
page 1 of 2
2'-3"

--- page 62 ---
LEVEL 01b (121.5')
0' - 6"
LEVEL 01b (121.5')
0' - 6"
LEVEL 02
12' - 2"
LEVEL 03
22' - 2"
LEVEL 04
32' - 2"
LEVEL 05
42' - 2"
LEVEL 06
52' - 2"
TO PLATE
71' - 2"
TO PLATE
71' - 2"
LEVEL 07
62' - 2"
PL
PL
2' - 11"
70' - 8"
3' - 9"
70' - 8"
5' - 11"
217' - 9"
6' - 4"
ADJACENT GRADE
118.58'
ADJACENT GRADE
117.75'
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
73' - 7" HT TO TO PLATE
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
74' - 5" HT TO TO PLATE
E 5TH AVE
E 4TH AVE
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
83' - 3"HT TO TO PARAPET
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
82' - 5"HT TO TO PARAPET
TO PARAPET
81' - 6"
TO PARAPET
81 - 6"
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 10 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 11" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
10' - 7" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
3/30/2021 12:05:52 PM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/San Mateo Downtown - A.rvt
KIKU CROSSING
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS - NORTH
2021
A301
03/30/21
2
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
1
1/16" = 1'-0"
A301
2
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - NORTH - HOUSING BLOCK - STREET
1
ENTITLEMENT
CURRENT
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 02
13' - 8"
LEVEL 03
23' - 8"
LEVEL 04
33' - 8"
LEVEL 05
43' - 8"
LEVEL 06
53' - 8"
1
A322
________________________
1
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
PL
PL
E 5TH AVE
E 4TH AVE
10
2' - 11"
70' - 8"
ADJACENT GRADE
117.75'
ADJACENT GRADE
118.58'
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
LEVEL 07
63' - 8"
1
3
2
3
2
1
2
26
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
73' - 7" HT TO PLATE
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
74' - 5" HT TO PLATE
3' - 9"
70' - 8"
9
4
1
12
2
1/16" = 1'-0"
A301
2
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - NORTH - HOUSING BLOCK - STREET
1
ENTITLEMENT
CURRENT
63' - 8"
23' - 8"
43' - 8"
53' - 8"
33' - 8"
72' - 8"
AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED
13' - 8"
2' - 0"
72' - 8"
2' - 0"
AS APPROVED
TO PARAPET
78' - 5"
8' - 10 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
10' - 7" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
TO PARAPET
78' - 5"
8' - 11' FF TO CLG HEIGHT
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
79' - 4" HT TO TO PARAPET
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
80' - 2" HT TO TO PARAPET
NORTH ELEVATION AND PLAN
2
S. CLAREMONT AVE
Move tree to courtyard, no
change in total on-site tree
count
#6 : CAN MOVE BOX TO
BACK OF SIDEWALK
#7 Box - temporary
power. It will be
removed at end of
construction.
#7: LOCATION WILL BE ADJUSTED
BUT CANNOT MOVE WITHIN
PROPERTY LINE. THERE IS NOT
EOUGH ON-SITE SPACE
Storm-drain line for
on-site distribution.
EXHIBIT 
4.13.21
PROPOSED DRY
UTILITY REVISIONS
page 2 of 2

--- page 63 ---
PROJECT SITE
E 4TH AVE
E 5TH AVE
S CLAREMONT ST
S RAILROAD AVE 
3RD AVE
S DELAWARE ST
S ELDORADO ST
S B ST
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
6/15/2020 9:21:00 AM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
PROJECT INFORMATION
2019
G001
06.15.20
SHEET INDEX
VICINITY MAP
A203
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 03 - HOUSING BLOCK
A204
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 04 - HOUSING BLOCK
A205
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 05 - HOUSING BLOCK
A206
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 06 - HOUSING BLOCK
A207
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 07 - HOUSING BLOCK
A208
ROOF PLAN - HOUSING BLOCK
A211
SITE & FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 01 - PARKING LOT
A212
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 02 - PARKING LOT
A213
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 03 - PARKING LOT
A214
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 04 - PARKING LOT
A215
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 05 - PARKING LOT
A216
ROOF PLAN - PARKING LOT
A301
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS - HOUSING BLOCK
A302
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS - HOUSING BLOCK
A311
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS - GARAGE
A312
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS - GARAGE
A321
BUILDING SECTIONS - HOUSING BLOCK
A322
BUILDING SECTIONS - HOUSING BLOCK
A323
BUILDING SECTIONS - GARAGE
A331
PRECEDENT IMAGERY
A332
PEDESTRIAL BRIDGE DESIGN
A333
SOLAR PANEL AT GARAGE IMAGERY
A334
MATERIAL BOARD
A401
PERSPECTIVE - E 4TH AVE & S RAILROAD AVE
A402
PERSPECTIVE - E AVE ENTRY
A403
PERSPECTIVE - E AVE ENTRY COLOR PALETTE
A404
PERSPECTIVE - S CLAREMONT ST SIDEWALK
A405
PERSPECTIVE - S CLAREMONT ST & E 4TH AVE
A406
PERSPECTIVE - E 5TH AVE & S RAILROAD AVE
A407
PERSPECTIVE - HOUSING AT S RAILROAD AVE
A408
PERSPECTIVE - HOUSING AT S RAILROAD AVE
A409
PERSPECTIVE - GARAGE AT S RAILROAD AVE
A410
GARAGE NORTH WALL
A411
GARAGE NORTH WALL
A501
ENLARGED UNIT PLANS
A511
OPEN SPACE DIAGRAM
G512
GROSS AREA PLAN - HOUSING
G513
GROSS AREA PLAN - GARAGE
TOTAL: 75
00 - GENERAL
G000
COVER SHEET
G001
PROJECT INFORMATION
G002
PROJECT DATA
G003
BUILDING CODE DIAGRAM - BUILDING AREA
G004
LEVEL 01 - ACCESS PLAN
G005
BUILDING CODE DIAGRAMS
G006
BUILDING CODE DIAGRAMS - HOUSING EGRESS
G007
BUILDING CODE DIAGRAMS - HOUSING EGRESS
G008
BUILDING CODE DIAGRAMS - GARAGE EGRESS
01 - CIVIL
C1.0
EXISTING CONDITIONS
C2.0
PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN
C2.1
PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN
C3.0
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN
C4.0
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN
C5.0
PRELIMINARY STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN
02 - LANDSCAPE
L100
LANDSCAPE PLAN - SITE PLAN
L101
LANDSCAPE PLAN - HOUSING BLOCK
L102
LANDSCAPE PLAN - PARKING GARAGE
L103
LANDSCAPE PLAN - 7TH FLOOR
L104
LANDSCAPE STREETSCAPE SECTIONS
L200
LANDSCAPE MATERIALS SCHEDULE AND PLAN (HOUSING)
L201
LANDSCAPE MATERIALS PLAN ( PARKING GARAGE)
L202
LANDSCAPE MATERIALS PLAN (7TH FLOOR)
L203
LANDSCAPE MATERIALS AND FURNISHING
L300
LANDSCAPE PLANTING SCHEDULE
L301
LANDSCAPE PLANT PALETTE
L400
TREE REMOVAL AND PROTECTION PLAN - HOUSING BLOCK
L401
TREE REMOVAL AND PROTECTION PLAN - PARKING GARAGE
L402
ARBORIST REPORT BY SBCA TREE CONSULTING
L403
ARBORIST REPORT APPENDIX BY SBCA TREE CONSULTING
L404
TREE EVALUATION SCHEDULE & REQUIRED TREE PLANTING FORM
04 - ARCHITECTURAL
A102
SITE PLAN - OVERALL
A103
SITE SECTION
A104
SHADOW STUDY
A110
SITE PHOTOS
A201
SITE & FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 01 - HOUSING BLOCK
A202
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 02 - HOUSING BLOCK
PROJECT MILESTONES
ENTITLEMENT APPLICATION - 5 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
07/10/2019
ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL #1 
09/10/2019
ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL #1 - RESPONSE TO DESIGN REVIEW COMMENTS 
09/27/2019
ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL #2
11/08/2019
ENTITLEMENT APPLICATION - 7 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
03/04/2020
ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL - 7 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
04/06/2020
ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL - 7 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
06/01/2020
ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL - 7 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
06/15/2020
PROJECT SUMMARY
PROJECT ADDRESS:
480 EAST 4TH AVE & 400 EAST 5TH AVE, SAN MATEO, CA
ASSESSOR'S PARCEL NO.:
034-183-060 & 033-281-140 
ZONING:
CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (CBD) - SUPPORT DISTRICT
LOT AREA:
50,587 SQ FT (4TH AVE) & 54,471 SQFT(5TH AVE)
CONSTRUCTION TYPE:
TYPE IIIA OVER TYPE IA (4TH AVE) & TYPE IA (5TH AVE)
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
THE CURRENT CITY-OWNED REDEVELOPMENT SITES CONSISTS OF TWO PARCELS WITH A TOTAL OF 
235 SURFACE PARKING STALLS. THE PROJECT IS TO REDEVELOP THE SITES INTO AFFORDABLE 
HOUSING CONSISTING OF 225 UNITS (234,350 NET SF) AND AN ABOVE-GROUND PARKING GARAGE 
WITH A MINIMUM OF 164 PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL PARKING STALLS AND A MINIMUM OF 532 PUBLIC 
PARKING STALLS. THE TOTAL NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES IS 696 STALLS ( NOT EXPECTED TO 
EXCEED 715) THE PROJECT ALSO INCLUDES LONG-TERM BICYCLE STORAGE FOR 288 BIKES. 
HOUSING BLOCK (4TH AVE)
OCCUPANCY:
R-2
PARKING BLOCK (5TH AVE)
OCCUPANCY:
S-2
STORIES / HEIGHT ALLOWED:
55'-0" (4TH AVE) / 55'-0" (5TH AVE)
STORIES / HEIGHT PROPOSED:
74'-5" (4TH AVE) / 46'-0" (5TH AVE)
BUILDING DENSITY ALLOWED:
50 DU/ACRE AS PERMITTED IN THE CBD-S  (NO DENSITY LIMITATIONS AS PROVIDED BY AB 1763)
   
BUILDING DENSITY PROPOSED:
225 / 2.41 ACRE = 93.36 DU/ACRE (4TH AVE PARCEL + 5TH AVE PARCEL)
FAR ALLOWED:
3.00
FAR PROPOSED:
4.24
4TH AVE FAR:
234,350 SQ FT / 50,587 SQ FT = 4.63 
5TH AVE FAR:
210,509 SQ FT / 54,471 SQ FT = 3.86 
(*5TH AVE FAR - EXCLUDES UNCOVERED PARKING AND RAILROAD EASEMENT)
TOTAL PLOT
(234,351 SQ FT + 210,509 SQ FT) / (50,587 SQ FT + 54,471  SQ FT) = 
444,859 SQ FT / 105,058 SQ FT = 4.24
EXISTING  STRUCTURES: 
LOCATED ON PARCEL: 033-281-140
EXISTING STRUCTURES: 2,800 SQ FT
LIST OF ALL HERITAGE TREES ON SITE INCLUDING SPECIES AND SIZE: REFERENCE ARBORIST REPORT AND SHEET  L402-404
APPLICABLE CODES & REGULATIONS
1. 
CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS, TITLE 24, PUBLISHED BY THE CALIFORNIA BUILDING STANDARDS COMMISSION:
• 
PART 2, "2019 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE" (CBC)
• 
PART 3, "2019 CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE" (CEC)
• 
PART 4, "2019 CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE" (CMC)
• 
PART 5, "2019 CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE" (CPC)
• 
PART 6, "2019 CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE"
• 
PART 9, "2019 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE" (CFC)
• 
PART 11, "2019 CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS CODE"
ALONG WITH ANY OTHER APPLICABLE CALIFORNIA STATE LAWS AND REGULATIONS OR WITH ANY OTHER APPLICABLE LOCAL MORE 
RESTRICTIVE PROVISIONS AND ADOPTED ORDINANCES THAT APPLY TO THE CONSTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS.
2. 
CITY OF SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE
BUILDING SETBACKS - HOUSING BLOCK
NORTH (S CLAREMONT ST)
2'-9" (CLOSEST) / 6'-9" (FARTHEST)
EAST (E 5TH AVE)
4'-0" (CLOSEST) / 7'-0" (FARTHEST)
SOUTH (S RAILROAD AVE)
1'-8" (CLOSEST) / 6'-3" (FARTHEST)
WEST (E 4TH AVE)
3'-0" (CLOSEST) / 21'-0" (FARTHEST/PLAZA)
BUILDING SETBACKS - PARKING BLOCK
NORTH (S CLAREMONT ST)
0'-9"
EAST
10'-6"
SOUTH (S RAILROAD AVE)
12'-6"
WEST (E 5TH AVE)
1'-6"
BUILDING SETBACKS
AS APPROVED

--- page 64 ---
PROJECT SITE
E 4TH AVE
E 5TH AVE
S CLAREMONT ST
S RAILROAD AVE 
3RD AVE
S DELAWARE ST
S ELDORADO ST
S B ST
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
3/30/2021 4:13:22 PM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/San Mateo Downtown - A.rvt
KIKU CROSSING
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
PROJECT INFORMATION
2021
G001
03/30/21
SHEET INDEX
VICINITY MAP
PROJECT MILESTONES
ENTITLEMENT APPLICATION - 5 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
07/10/2019
ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL #1 
09/10/2019
ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL #1 - RESPONSE TO DESIGN REVIEW COMMENTS 
09/27/2019
ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL #2
11/08/2019
ENTITLEMENT APPLICATION - 7 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
03/04/2020
ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL - 7 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
04/06/2020
ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL - 7 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
06/01/2020
ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL - 7 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
06/15/2020
PROJECT SUMMARY
PROJECT ADDRESS:
480 EAST 4TH AVE & 400 EAST 5TH AVE, SAN MATEO, CA
ASSESSOR'S PARCEL NO.:
034-183-060 & 033-281-140 
ZONING:
CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (CBD) - SUPPORT DISTRICT
LOT AREA:
50,587 SQ FT (4TH AVE) & 54,471 SQFT(5TH AVE)
CONSTRUCTION TYPE:
TYPE IIIA OVER TYPE IA (4TH AVE) & TYPE IA (5TH AVE)
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
THE CURRENT CITY-OWNED REDEVELOPMENT SITES CONSISTS OF TWO PARCELS WITH A TOTAL OF 
235 SURFACE PARKING STALLS. THE PROJECT IS TO REDEVELOP THE SITES INTO AFFORDABLE 
HOUSING CONSISTING OF 225 UNITS (211,970 NET SF) AND AN ABOVE-GROUND PARKING GARAGE 
WITH A MINIMUM OF 164 PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL PARKING STALLS AND A MINIMUM OF 532 PUBLIC 
PARKING STALLS. THE TOTAL NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES IS 696 STALLS ( NOT EXPECTED TO 
EXCEED 715) THE PROJECT ALSO INCLUDES LONG-TERM BICYCLE STORAGE FOR 288 BIKES. 
HOUSING BLOCK (4TH AVE)
OCCUPANCY:
R-2
PARKING BLOCK (5TH AVE)
OCCUPANCY:
S-2
STORIES / HEIGHT ALLOWED:
55'-0" (4TH AVE) / 55'-0" (5TH AVE)
STORIES / HEIGHT PROPOSED:
74'-5" (4TH AVE) / 46'-0" (5TH AVE)
BUILDING DENSITY ALLOWED:
50 DU/ACRE AS PERMITTED IN THE CBD-S  (NO DENSITY LIMITATIONS AS PROVIDED BY AB 1763)
   
BUILDING DENSITY PROPOSED:
225 / 2.41 ACRE = 93.36 DU/ACRE (4TH AVE PARCEL + 5TH AVE PARCEL)
FAR ALLOWED:
3.00
FAR PROPOSED:
3.93
4TH AVE FAR:
211,970 SQ FT / 50,587 SQ FT = 4.20 
5TH AVE FAR:
201,431 FT / 54,471 SQ FT = 3.70 
(*5TH AVE FAR - EXCLUDES UNCOVERED PARKING AND RAILROAD EASEMENT)
TOTAL PLOT
(211,970 SQ FT + 201,431 SQ FT) / (50,587 SQ FT + 54,471  SQ FT) = 
413,401 SQ FT / 105,058 SQ FT = 3.93
EXISTING  STRUCTURES: 
LOCATED ON PARCEL: 033-281-140
EXISTING STRUCTURES: 2,800 SQ FT
LIST OF ALL HERITAGE TREES ON SITE INCLUDING SPECIES AND SIZE: REFERENCE ARBORIST REPORT AND SHEET  L402-404
APPLICABLE CODES & REGULATIONS
1. 
CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS, TITLE 24, PUBLISHED BY THE CALIFORNIA BUILDING STANDARDS COMMISSION:
• 
PART 2, "2019 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE" (CBC)
• 
PART 3, "2019 CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE" (CEC)
• 
PART 4, "2019 CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE" (CMC)
• 
PART 5, "2019 CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE" (CPC)
• 
PART 6, "2019 CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE"
• 
PART 9, "2019 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE" (CFC)
• 
PART 11, "2019 CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS CODE"
ALONG WITH ANY OTHER APPLICABLE CALIFORNIA STATE LAWS AND REGULATIONS OR WITH ANY OTHER APPLICABLE LOCAL MORE 
RESTRICTIVE PROVISIONS AND ADOPTED ORDINANCES THAT APPLY TO THE CONSTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS.
2. 
CITY OF SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE
BUILDING SETBACKS - HOUSING BLOCK
NORTH (S CLAREMONT ST)
2'-11" (CLOSEST) / 8'-0" (FARTHEST)
EAST (E 5TH AVE)
6'-5" (CLOSEST) / 9'-9" (FARTHEST)
SOUTH (S RAILROAD AVE)
5'-8 1/2" (CLOSEST) / 9'-0" (FARTHEST)
WEST (E 4TH AVE)
6'-2" (CLOSEST) / 24'-3" (FARTHEST/PLAZA)
BUILDING SETBACKS - PARKING BLOCK
NORTH (S CLAREMONT ST)
0'-9"
EAST
10'-6"
SOUTH (S RAILROAD AVE)
12'-6"
WEST (E 5TH AVE)
1'-6"
BUILDING SETBACKS
AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED
GRAYED OUT INFORMATION
INCLUDED IN GARAGE SPAR
MODIFICATION
03/04/20      ENTITLEMENT APPLICATION - 7 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
04/06/20      ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL- 7 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
06/01/20      ENTITLEMENT SUBMITTAL - 7 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
06/15/20      ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL - 7 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
03/01/21      ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL - 7 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
03/30/21      ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL - 7 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
04/26/21      ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL - 7 STORY HOUSING BLOCK

--- page 65 ---
** As calculated in the Preliminary Building Area Tabulation
* Unit GSF includes exterior, corridor and party walls
Average Unit Size (GSF)
820
Residential GSF**
184,531
AVERAGE UNIT SIZE
%
29%
21%
24%
26%
100%
TOT...
65
48
53
59
225
1
6
3
6
6
21
2
10
7
8
9
34
3
11
8
8
9
36
4
11
8
8
9
36
5
9
8
8
9
34
6
9
8
8
9
34
7
9
6
7
8
30
442 GSF
624 GSF typ. 884 GSF typ.
1,144 GSF
17'x26'
24'x26' typ
34'x26' typ.
44'x26'
TOTAL
LEVEL
STUDIO
1 BR
2 BR
3 BR
UNIT
PRELIMINARY UNIT MIX* - 7 STORY SCHEME
Exemptions include - Uncovered parking on Level 05, and elevator shafts and stairwells on all levels above ground level
*** Residential Exempted Area GSF excludes areas per the City of San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.94.200
* Garage Total GSF includes all spaces inside garage footprint, such as mechanical/utility spaces, etc
See Sheet G513 for breakdown of areas
NOTES:
Total
210,509.0
27,956.0
238,465
210,509
1
47,693.0
0.0
47,693.0
47,693.0
2
47,088.5
604.5
47,693.0
47,088.5
3
47,088.5
604.5
47,693.0
47,088.5
4
47,088.5
604.5
47,693.0
47,088.5
5
21,550.5
26,142.5
47,693.0
21,550.5
Garage GSF + Exempt GSF
Total Gross minus Exempt
Level
Garage GSF*
Exempt GSF***
Total Gross Area
Total Net Area
Garage
Garage
Garage
Garage
GARAGE AREA TABULATIONS
06/11/2020
Exemptions include - Bicycle facilities, exterior walkways, and elevator shafts and stairwells on all levels above ground level
*** Residential Exempted Area GSF excludes areas per the City of San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.94.200
** Residential Amenity GSF includes entry lobby, leasing offices, community room, fitness room, laundry room, maintenance offices, etc
* Residential Floor Area GSF includes Exempt GSF -Residential GSF includes units, corridors, utility rooms, mechanical rooms, etc.
See Sheet G512 for breakdown of areas
NOTES:
Total
221,820.6
12,529.7
8,491.6
242,842
234,350
1
24,991.2
5,961.5
2,686.7
33,639.4
30,952.7
2
32,368.4
476.1
1,036.0
33,880.5
32,844.5
3
34,053.3
476.1
709.4
35,238.8
34,529.4
4
34,053.3
476.1
709.4
35,238.8
34,529.4
5
34,053.3
476.1
709.4
35,238.8
34,529.4
6
34,006.3
476.1
709.4
35,191.8
34,482.4
7
28,294.8
4,187.7
1,931.3
34,413.8
32,482.5
Residential GSF + Amenity GSF + Exempt...
Total Gross minus Exempt
Level Residential GSF* Amenity GSF** Exempt GSF***
Total Gross Area
Total Net Area
Residential
Residential
Residential
Residential
Residential
BUILDING AREA TABULATIONS
06/11/2020
(Multiplier)
* Bike parking calculated per San Mateo municipal code, 27.64.262
**** Commercial Clean Air Vehicle requirements per Cal Green Non-Residential Mandatory Measures
* Long term bike parking is secured Class I spaces
uses per table 5.106.5.3.3 (10-25 stalls : 1 EV stalls)
Total Bike Parking Provided
288
*** Per CAL Green Non-Residential Mandatory Measures - EV stalls to be provided for non-residential
Total Bike Parking Required
288
spaces to be EV capable with 5% EVSE installed.
65.00
48.00
66.25
88.50
267.75
** Per San Mateo REACH code 15% Residential spaces to be EV capable and 15% Non Residential
Long term bike
parking
1.00
1.00
1.25
1.50
* EV and Clean Air stalls included in "required" and "provided" parking calculations
3.25
2.40
5.30
8.85
19.80
Short term bike
parking
0.05
0.05
0.10
0.15
Total Non-Residential EV Compliant Parking Provided
7
TYPE
STUDIO
1 BR
2 BR
3 BR
Total Non-Residential EV Compliant Parking Required
7
BIKE PARKING*
Bike Total
Non-Residential Amblutory EVCS
81
3%
3
BICYCLE PARKING CALCULATIONS*
Non-Residential Standard Accessible EVCS***
81
3%
3
Non-Residential Van Accessible EVCS**
81
1%
1
Stall count
Percent
PARKING STALLS
EV Total
NON-RESIDENTIAL ACCESSIBLE (EV) PARKING CALCULATIONS*
Total Non-Residential EV Compliant Parking Provided
81
Total Residential EV Compliant Parking Provided
25
Total Non-Residential EV Compliant Parking Required
81
Total Residential EV Compliant Parking Required
25
Minimum Standard EVCS
24
Non-Residential equipped with level 2 EVSE***
532
5%
27
Minimum Van EVCS
25
4%
1
Non-Residential Future EVSE**
532
10%
54
Residential Future EVCS
164
15%
25
Stall count
Percent
Stall count
Percent
PARKING STALLS
EV Total
PARKING STALLS
EV Total
NON-RESIDENTIAL ELECTRIC VEHICLE (EV) PARKING CALCULATIONS*
RESIDENTIAL ELECTRIC VEHICLE (EV) PARKING CALCULATIONS*
**Count includes Van Accessible Spaces per CBC 11B-208.2.4
* Accessible stalls included in "required" and "provided" parking calculations
*Residential secured stalls are secured from others per SMMC Section 23.54.030
Total Accessible Parking Provided
13
Total Assigned Residential Accessible Parking Provided
4
Total Non-Residential Accessible Parking Required
9
Total Assigned Residential Accessible Parking Required
4
Minimum number of Standard Stalls
6
Minimum number of Standard Accessible Stalls
3
Minimum number of Van Stalls (1 in ever 6)
3
Minimum number of Van Accessible stalls (1 in every *)
1
Non-Residential Parking at 2% of stalls
451
2%
9
Residential Parking at 2% of stalls
164
2%
4
Stall count
Percent
Stall count
Percent
PARKING STALLS
Accessible Total
PARKING STALLS
Accessible Total
NON-RESIDENTIAL ACCESSIBLE PARKING CALCULATION*
RESIDENTIAL ACCESSIBLE PARKING CALCULATION*
** Parallel spaces are included in level 01 'Standard' stall tabulation
**See Residential Accessible parking calulation of division of Accessible parking stalls
* EV count includes EV Accessible, EV Van Spaces, and EV Amblutory spaces
* EV Accessible Van Spaces included in count
Total
81
357
13
81
532
Total
33
102
4
25
164
1
16
88
4
10
118
1
0
0
0
0
0
2
31
98
3
23
155
2
0
0
0
0
0
3
30
98
3
24
155
3
0
0
0
0
0
4
4
73
3
24
104
4
24
23
0
0
47
5
0
0
0
0
0
5
9
79
4
25
117
8'-6" x 18' MIN. 8'-6" x 17' MIN.
9' x 18' MIN.
9" x 18' MIN.
8'-6" x 18' MIN. 8'-6" x 17' MIN.
9' x 18' MIN.
9" x 18' MIN.
Level
Standard
Compact
Accessible
 EV Ready*
(15%)
Total
Level
Standard
Compact
 Accessible
 EV Ready*
(15%)
Total
NON-RESIDENTIALL PARKING STALLS
RESIDENTIAL PARKING STALLS
ON-SITE STALL DISTRIBUTION
ON-SITE STALL DISTRIBUTION
PARKING TABULATION
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
6/15/2020 9:21:02 AM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
PROJECT DATA
2019
G002
06.15.20
AS APPROVED

--- page 66 ---
GSF is taken to the exterior side of exterior walls and the centerline of party walls.
Exemptions include - Bicycle facilities, exterior walkways, and elevator shafts and stairwells on all levels above ground level
*** Residential Exempted Area GSF excludes areas per the City of San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.94.200
** Residential Amenity GSF includes entry lobby, leasing offices, community room,  laundry room, maintenance offices, etc
* Residential Floor Area GSF includes Exempt GSF. Residential GSF includes units, corridors, utility rooms, mechanical rooms, etc.
NOTES:
Total
202,899.9
9,069.7
6,887.1
218,857
211,970
1
23,300.6
5,495.1
2,327.4
31,123.1
28,795.7
2
29,304.4
275.3
1,070.0
30,649.7
29,579.7
3
30,920.3
293.8
716.0
31,930.1
31,214.1
4
30,919.8
293.8
716.6
31,930.2
31,213.6
5
31,086.2
0.0
715.7
31,801.9
31,086.2
6
30,377.3
293.9
715.4
31,386.6
30,671.2
7
26,991.3
2,417.8
626.0
30,035.1
29,409.1
Residential GSF + Amenity GSF + Exempt GSF
Total Gross minus Exempt
Level Residential GSF* Amenity GSF** Exempt GSF***
Total Gross Area
Total Net Area
Residential
Residential
Residential
Residential
Residential
BUILDING AREA TABULATIONS
4/5/2021
* Bike parking calculated per San Mateo municipal code, 27.64.262
**** Commercial Clean Air Vehicle requirements per Cal Green Non-Residential Mandatory Measures
* Long term bike parking is secured Class I spaces
uses per table 5.106.5.3.3 (10-25 stalls : 1 EV stalls)
Total Bike Parking Provided
288
*** Per CAL Green Non-Residential Mandatory Measures - EV stalls to be provided for non-residential
Total Bike Parking Required
288
spaces to be EV capable with 5% EVSE installed.
65.00
48.00
66.25
88.50
267.75
** Per San Mateo REACH code 15% Residential spaces to be EV capable and 15% Non Residential
Long term bike
parking
1.00
1.00
1.25
1.50
* EV and Clean Air stalls included in "required" and "provided" parking calculations
3.25
2.40
5.30
8.85
19.80
Short term bike
parking
0.05
0.05
0.10
0.15
Total Non-Residential EV Compliant Parking Provided
7
TYPE
STUDIO
1 BR
2 BR
3 BR
Total Non-Residential EV Compliant Parking Required
7
BIKE PARKING*
Bike Total
Non-Residential Amblutory EVCS
81
3%
3
BICYCLE PARKING CALCULATIONS*
4/5/2021
Non-Residential Standard Accessible EVCS***
81
3%
3
Non-Residential Van Accessible EVCS**
81
1%
1
Stall count
Percent
PARKING STALLS
EV Total
NON-RESIDENTIAL ACCESSIBLE (EV) PARKING CALCULATIONS*
Total Non-Residential EV Compliant Parking Provided
81
Total Residential EV Compliant Parking Provided
25
Total Non-Residential EV Compliant Parking Required
81
Total Residential EV Compliant Parking Required
25
Minimum Standard EVCS
24
Non-Residential equipped with level 2 EVSE***
532
5%
27
Minimum Van EVCS
25
4%
1
Non-Residential Future EVSE**
532
10%
54
Residential Future EVCS
164
15%
25
Stall count
Percent
Stall count
Percent
PARKING STALLS
EV Total
PARKING STALLS
EV Total
NON-RESIDENTIAL ELECTRIC VEHICLE (EV) PARKING CALCULATIONS*
RESIDENTIAL ELECTRIC VEHICLE (EV) PARKING CALCULATIONS*
**Count includes Van Accessible Spaces per CBC 11B-208.2.4
* Accessible stalls included in "required" and "provided" parking calculations
*Residential secured stalls are secured from others per SMMC Section 23.54.030
Total Accessible Parking Provided
13
Total Assigned Residential Accessible Parking Provided
4
Total Non-Residential Accessible Parking Required
9
Total Assigned Residential Accessible Parking Required
4
Minimum number of Standard Stalls
6
Minimum number of Standard Accessible Stalls
3
Minimum number of Van Stalls (1 in ever 6)
3
Minimum number of Van Accessible stalls (1 in every *)
1
Non-Residential Parking at 2% of stalls
451
2%
9
Residential Parking at 2% of stalls
164
2%
4
Stall count
Percent
Stall count
Percent
PARKING STALLS
Accessible Total
PARKING STALLS
Accessible Total
NON-RESIDENTIAL ACCESSIBLE PARKING CALCULATION*
RESIDENTIAL ACCESSIBLE PARKING CALCULATION*
** Parallel spaces are included in level 01 'Standard' stall tabulation
**See Residential Accessible parking calulation of division of Accessible parking stalls
* EV count includes EV Accessible, EV Van Spaces, and EV Amblutory spaces
* EV Accessible Van Spaces included in count
Total
81
357
13
81
532
Total
33
102
4
25
164
1
16
88
4
10
118
1
0
0
0
0
0
2
31
98
3
23
155
2
0
0
0
0
0
3
30
98
3
24
155
3
0
0
0
0
0
4
4
73
3
24
104
4
24
23
0
0
47
5
0
0
0
0
0
5
9
79
4
25
117
8'-6" x 18' MIN. 8'-6" x 17' MIN.
9' x 18' MIN.
9" x 18' MIN.
8'-6" x 18' MIN. 8'-6" x 17' MIN.
9' x 18' MIN.
9" x 18' MIN.
Level
Standard
Compact
Accessible
 EV Ready*
(15%)
Total
Level
Standard
Compact
 Accessible
 EV Ready*
(15%)
Total
NON-RESIDENTIALL PARKING STALLS
RESIDENTIAL PARKING STALLS
ON-SITE STALL DISTRIBUTION
ON-SITE STALL DISTRIBUTION
PARKING TABULATION
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/26/2021 10:15:03 AM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/San Mateo Downtown - A.rvt
KIKU CROSSING
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
PROJECT DATA
2021
G002
03/30/21
** As calculated in the Building Area Tabulation
* Unit GSF includes exterior, corridor, and party walls
Average Unit Size (GSF)
683
Residential GSF **
153,736
AVERAGE UNIT SIZE
%
29%
18%
26%
26%
100%
TOTAL
66
41
59
59
225
1
6
3
6
6
21
2
9
6
9
9
33
3
11
7
9
9
36
4
11
7
9
9
36
5
10
6
9
9
34
6
10
6
9
9
34
7
9
6
8
8
31
380 GSF typ.
529 GSF typ.
784 GSF typ.
1,029 GSF typ.
15'-6" x 24'-6"
21'-7" x 24'-6
32'-0 x 24'-6"
42'-0 x 24'-6"
TOTAL
LEVEL
STUDIO
1 BR
2 BR
3 BR
UNIT
UNIT MIX
4/16/2021
Residential GSF includes units, corridors, utility rooms, mechanical rooms, etc.
AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED
GRAYED OUT INFORMATION INCLUDED IN
GARAGE SPAR MODIFICATION
TOTAL PERCENTAGE CHANGE FROM 'AS APPROVED'                                                                     -9.8%                                 -9.5%
3.30
66.00
2.05
5.90
73.75
41.00
20.10
269.25
290
290

--- page 67 ---
AREA LEGEND
AMENITY
CIRC
EXEMPT
RESIDENTIAL
UTILITY
BICYCLE 
FACILITY
EXTERIOR COVERED 
WALKWAYS
ELEVATOR SHAFTS &
STAIRWELLS ON LEVELS
ABOVE GROUND FLOOR,
TYP
50,587 SF
RES SITE AREA
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
6/15/2020 9:17:42 AM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
GROSS AREA PLAN - HOUSING
2019
G512
06.15.20
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 01
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 02
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 03
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 04
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 05
AREA SCHEDULE (RENTABLE)
LEVEL
AREA
NAME
COMMENTS
LEVEL 07
4,187.7 SF
AMENITY
LEVEL 07
3,418.6 SF
CIRC
LEVEL 07
1,931.3 SF
EXEMPT
LEVEL 07
24,307.8 SF
RESIDENTIAL
LEVEL 07
568.4 SF
UTILITY
LEVEL 07
34,413.8 SF
LEVEL 06
476.1 SF
AMENITY
LEVEL 06
5,442.1 SF
CIRC
LEVEL 06
709.4 SF
EXEMPT
LEVEL 06
27,999.8 SF
RESIDENTIAL
LEVEL 06
564.4 SF
UTILITY
LEVEL 06
35,191.8 SF
LEVEL 05
476.1 SF
AMENITY
LEVEL 05
5,442.1 SF
CIRC
LEVEL 05
709.4 SF
EXEMPT
LEVEL 05
28,046.9 SF
RESIDENTIAL
LEVEL 05
564.4 SF
UTILITY
LEVEL 05
35,238.8 SF
LEVEL 04
476.1 SF
AMENITY
LEVEL 04
4,578.8 SF
CIRC
LEVEL 04
709.4 SF
EXEMPT
LEVEL 04
28,909.6 SF
RESIDENTIAL
LEVEL 04
564.9 SF
UTILITY
LEVEL 04
35,238.8 SF
LEVEL 03
476.1 SF
AMENITY
LEVEL 03
4,578.8 SF
CIRC
LEVEL 03
709.4 SF
EXEMPT
LEVEL 03
28,909.6 SF
RESIDENTIAL
LEVEL 03
564.9 SF
UTILITY
LEVEL 03
35,238.8 SF
LEVEL 02
476.1 SF
AMENITY
LEVEL 02
3,907.1 SF
CIRC
LEVEL 02
1,036.0 SF
EXEMPT
LEVEL 02
27,874.9 SF
RESIDENTIAL
LEVEL 02
586.4 SF
UTILITY
LEVEL 02
33,880.5 SF
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
5,961.5 SF
AMENITY
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
3,788.5 SF
CIRC
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2,686.7 SF
EXEMPT
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
17,525.6 SF
RESIDENTIAL
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
3,677.1 SF
UTILITY
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
33,639.4 SF
GROSS TOTAL
242,842.0 SF
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 06
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 07
1" = 40'-0"
RESIDENTIAL SITE AREA
AS APPROVED

--- page 68 ---
UP
UP
UP
UP
UP
UP
UP
AMENITY
CIRC
EXEMPT
RESIDENTIAL
UTILITY
BICYCLE 
FACILITY
EXTERIOR COVERED 
WALKWAYS
ELEVATOR SHAFTS &
STAIRWELLS ON LEVELS
ABOVE GROUND FLOOR,
TYP
50,587 SF
RES SITE AREA
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
3/24/2021 10:43:08 AM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/San Mateo Downtown - A.rvt
KIKU CROSSING
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
GROSS AREA PLANS
2021
G512
03/30/21
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 01
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 02
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 03
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 04
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 05
AREA SCHEDULE (RENTABLE)
LEVEL
AREA
NAME
COMMENTS
LEVEL 07
2,417.8 SF
AMENITY
AMENITY GSF
LEVEL 07
4,769.4 SF
CIRC
RESIDENTIAL GSF
LEVEL 07
626.0 SF
EXEMPT
EXEMPT GSF
LEVEL 07
21,957.6 SF
RESIDENTIAL
RESIDENTIAL GSF
LEVEL 07
264.3 SF
UTILITY
RESIDENTIAL GSF
LEVEL 07
30,035.1 SF
LEVEL 06
293.9 SF
AMENITY
AMENITY GSF
LEVEL 06
5,108.9 SF
CIRC
RESIDENTIAL GSF
LEVEL 06
715.4 SF
EXEMPT
EXEMPT GSF
LEVEL 06
24,744.7 SF
RESIDENTIAL
RESIDENTIAL GSF
LEVEL 06
523.7 SF
UTILITY
RESIDENTIAL GSF
LEVEL 06
31,386.6 SF
LEVEL 05
5,491.4 SF
CIRC
RESIDENTIAL GSF
LEVEL 05
715.7 SF
EXEMPT
EXEMPT GSF
LEVEL 05
24,777.3 SF
RESIDENTIAL
RESIDENTIAL GSF
LEVEL 05
817.6 SF
UTILITY
RESIDENTIAL GSF
LEVEL 05
31,801.9 SF
LEVEL 04
293.8 SF
AMENITY
AMENITY GSF
LEVEL 04
4,643.5 SF
CIRC
RESIDENTIAL GSF
LEVEL 04
716.6 SF
EXEMPT
EXEMPT GSF
LEVEL 04
25,639.6 SF
RESIDENTIAL
RESIDENTIAL GSF
LEVEL 04
636.8 SF
UTILITY
RESIDENTIAL GSF
LEVEL 04
31,930.2 SF
LEVEL 03
293.8 SF
AMENITY
AMENITY GSF
LEVEL 03
4,865.3 SF
CIRC
RESIDENTIAL GSF
LEVEL 03
716.0 SF
EXEMPT
EXEMPT GSF
LEVEL 03
25,641.3 SF
RESIDENTIAL
RESIDENTIAL GSF
LEVEL 03
413.8 SF
UTILITY
RESIDENTIAL GSF
LEVEL 03
31,930.1 SF
LEVEL 02
275.3 SF
AMENITY
AMENITY GSF
LEVEL 02
4,524.3 SF
CIRC
RESIDENTIAL GSF
LEVEL 02
1,069.4 SF
EXEMPT
EXEMPT GSF
LEVEL 02
23,912.5 SF
RESIDENTIAL
RESIDENTIAL GSF
LEVEL 02
868.2 SF
UTILITY
RESIDENTIAL GSF
LEVEL 02
30,649.7 SF
LEVEL 01b (121.5')
5,495.1 SF
AMENITY
AMENITY GSF
LEVEL 01b (121.5')
4,265.6 SF
CIRC
RESIDENTIAL GSF
LEVEL 01b (121.5')
2,327.4 SF
EXEMPT
EXEMPT GSF
LEVEL 01b (121.5')
15,647.2 SF
RESIDENTIAL
RESIDENTIAL GSF
LEVEL 01b (121.5')
3,387.8 SF
UTILITY
RESIDENTIAL GSF
LEVEL 01b (121.5')
31,123.1 SF
GROSS TOTAL
218,856.8 SF
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 06
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 07
1" = 40'-0"
RESIDENTIAL SITE AREA
AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED

--- page 69 ---
WIRE (5) B42 14

> ~~ ~ — ~ - — ~- ~- — LEGEND
—_" ll dial : — — —_—_ =| PROPERTY LINE
ee 7 oT a — ce «= AI AGENT LOT [INE
a ” — EASEMENT
ELIE ama oe —— 5 SS = = CENTERLINE
nw ne, nahi > | SD EXISTING STORM DRAIN
a | Ss EXISTING SANITARY SEWER
hte fips W EXISTING WATER
et CM EXISTING COMMUNICATIONS

—_— + ———. - —- ——,—__ - - ——— - - — - -— — - - — - - ——_ - - ——_— - - ———— ————_ EXISTING ELECTRICAL
oHE EXISTING OVERHEAD ELECTRICAL
| - G EXISTING GAS
WORE (4) 14443
“|. Ee _ x x EXISTING FENCE
| owe ) a 2 | + 6"TREE EXISTING TREE
: ) ke | fi x @ EXISTING STORM DRAIN MANHOLE
Ol. iF | BB soce EXISTING STORM DRAIN CATCH BASIN
| 5 |_| o B soo) EXISTING STORM DRAIN INLET
5 MPa tities be | iS EXISTING SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE
1) Ar | | dS Ye (a) ra xt EXISTING ELECTROLIER
Oo} ar) mew ae BLDG COR tN
| f ee 119.24 SN ve EXISTING SIGN
= ei i
< A Pa ee as | Re | =A n SO | Ty) Peel PELL LOL LL see? nn, Tit —E
| 2 | aa a HA _ : a Bak be 1) 9, Fa tease be 9 RE Mier a Se Pry AC ASPHALTIC CONCRETE
‘ wu | a ance eT | | hr (2) 140 ‘marty ASR AUTO-—SPRINKLER
lz WI 2 tf ASV ANTI-SIPHON VALVE
_ = BLDG COR BUILDING CORNER
con ! \ oa 7 CLF CHAIN LINK FENCE
| _ COMM PED COMMUNICATIONS PEDESTAL
| - eee Q a CONC CONCRETE
| FL * pel eps 9 i D/W DRIVEWAY
LPs FB ELECTRIC PULLBOX
; | me) 1 ly ECB ELECTRIC CABINET
eee ps EMH ELECTRIC MANHOLE
EV ELECTRIC VAULT
FH FIRE HYDRANT
‘ FL FLOWLINE
| GP /GW GUY POLE/GUY WIRE
| 2 INV INVERT
3Px JP JOINT POLE
o gl Ke LIP. OF GUTTER
at OHE OVERHEAD ELECTRIC
: PIV PRESSURE INTAKE VALVE
RMP SIDEWALK RAMP
“ro — S/W SIDEWALK
. SDCB STORM DRAIN CATCH BASIN
yo — SDDI STORM DRAIN DRAIN INLET
. | SDMH STORM DRAIN MANHOLE
eM cM SLB STREET LIGHT BOX
= SSMH SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE
TB COMMUNICATIONS PULLBOX
TC TOP OF CURB
“ ~ TRAN TRANSFORMER
EPs RP IAS Po Ie tee Et ee eS UE UTILITY PULLBOX
_ : a | : wi WATER METER
See Pe SS = eS t Ee wy WATER VALVE
3 SOUTH RAILROAD AVENUE

DIP INFORMATION SURVEY NOTES SURVEYOR STATEMENT

ALL DISTANCES AND DIMENSIONS ARE SHOWN IN FEET AND DECIMALS THEREOF.
THIS MAP CORRECTLY REPRESENTS A SURVEY MADE BY ME OR UNDER MY DIRECTION IN

NO. TYPE RIM (ELV. INV NOTES . CONFORMANCE WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE CALIFORNIA LAND SURVEYORS ACT AT THE REQUEST
(ELV. ) 2. DATES OF FIELD SURVEY: SEPTEMBER 28, 2018 Se LGCEN GBGEME) Wee C4 /oR ete.

’ 26 iia ’ os en Ad Piers 3. BENCHMARK: THE BENCHMARK USED FOR THIS SURVEY IS A CITY OF SAN MATEO BENCHMARK, BM
3H 122.94 ; Pe 033-004, A RAM SET NAIL AND WASHER ON THE TOP OF CURB AT THE EASTERLY END OF NOVEMBER 8. 2018
INV 15° OUT (E) 118.47 NORTHEASTERLY RETURN AT THE INTERSECTION OF B STREET AND 5TH AVENUE, CITY OF SAN MATEO. = SATE ;
: INV 15” IN (N) 115.79’
? SS. MH 122.71 ” j
INV 15” OUT (S) 115.77 ELEV = 125.28 FEET (SAN MATEO DATUM +100 FEET) SURVEYOR L.S. 7625
TITLE LICENSE
INV 12” IN (5) 107.99° 4. BASIS OF BEARINGS: THE BEARING OF N41°28’00”W ALONG THE CENTERLINE OF SOUTH DELAWARE ,
: eee STREET AS SHOWN ON THAT CERTAIN RECORD OF SURVEY MAP RECORDED ON JULY 6, 1991 IN BOOK 19
INV 12” OUT (N) 107.95 OF LICENSED LAND SURVEYS AT PAGE 82, SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS, AND AS SHOWN HEREON, WAS
TAKEN AS THE BASIS OF BEARINGS FOR THIS SURVEY.
INV 15” IN (SW) 116.78
INV 24” IN (S) 115.68’ 5. AERIAL BASED TOPOGRAPHIC MAP SHOWN AS BACKGROUND TO THIS SURVEY PROVIDED BY 360 AERIAL
INV 24” OUT (N) 115.56" SURVEYS DATED 08/31/18. “he

INV IN (N) 113.15” 6. BEARINGS AND DISTANCES ARE SHOWN AS PER THE RECORD; PM 324 VOLUME 64, PG. 53 AND PM
INV OUT (S) 112 93" 356 VOLUME 70, PG. 4.

7. UNION PACIFIC, FORMERLY KNOWN AS SOUTHERN PACIFIC TRANSPORTATION COMPANY (S.P.T.C), HAS THE GRAPHIC SCALE

RIGHT TO OWN, CONSTRUCT, RECONSTRUCT, MAINTAIN, OPERATE, USE AND/OR REMOVE EXISTING AND /OR
FUTURE RAILROAD, RAIL AND RAILROAD—RELATED EQUIPMENT, FACILITIES, TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS, 30 0 30 60
PIPELINES, COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS, LINES AND FACILITIES OF EVERY KIND AND NATURE.

SUITE 600

SAN JOSE, CA 95112

408-467-9100
Ewoieers /Sunvevors [Planners “0° 407~9199 (FAX) 04/13/21 BA R architects



--- page 70 ---
8 CS SS ll

+ TE ia =F + [ + II = F © 1780 PROPERTY LINE —_——_—s = —
eh ee SOUTH CLAREMONT STREET > NEW CROSSWALK
E om oF si (15.0) | siqits OF SAWCUT (TYP.) NEW CURB AND STRIPING r ADJACENT LOT LINE — @) STANDARD 8” x 22’ PARALLEL PARKING STALL
— ‘ Toot __GUTTER_TYPE."A” PER. ee
N fe mils RIGHT-OF-WAY CITY STANDARD 141A | cinnhhiguineaigniin a @ EXISTING STREET LIGHT TO REMAIN
vw RIS.0.5 ( ; i] VERTICAL CURB AND GUTTER

E = 4 G) RELOCATED EXISTING STREET LIGHT
ROLLED CURB AND GUTTER oor >
@) EXISTING MEMORIAL STREET LIGHT TO BE
——————————— PROTECTED, SALVAGED, AND RELOCATED IN
SS ee ee ee ge Be es Be AC DEEP LIFT SIMILAR LOCATION OUTSIDE PATH OF TRAVEL
6) PAINTED RED CURB — NO PARKING

SAWCUT LINE ee ee

ff oe =: —_ \ NEW CONCRETE PAVING — N O T E S
‘NEW BIKE LANE | i—+ . : | | Oo

{une STRP — | | 1. |

— — T 1. PEDESTRIAN AND BICYCLIST IMPROVEMENTS SHALL BE CLARIFIED
—— —— | a | : DURING CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.

ho | ; 2. RESTRIPE EASTBOUND 5TH AVENUE WITH TWO THROUGH LANES. TWO
| | THROUGH LANES ARE REQUIRED EAST OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT
( DRIVEWAY TO THE DELAWARE STREET INTERSECTION. AT THE
=}

: oT CLAREMONT STREET INTERSECTION, EASTBOUND 5TH AVENUE WOULD
Let) mee rae ee oa BE RESTRIPED WITH ONE SHARED LEFT-THROUGH LANE AND ONE
FY eg ices ll Ss

am | “ SHARED THROUGH—RIGHT LANE. THE INTERSECTION OF DELAWARE
a STREET AND STH AVENUE WOULD REQUIRE SIGNAL RETIMING,

3. INSTALL "KEEP CLEAR” MARKINGS ALONG EASTBOUND 5TH AVENUE IN
FRONT OF PROPOSED PROJECT DRIVEWAY.

H | Wye 4. IMPLEMENT CLASS II BIKE LANES PER THE 2020 BIKE MASTER PLAN
a ALONG BOTH SIDES OF STH AVENUE, FROM EAST OF THE RAILROAD
E puss ll A ay A tae TRACKS TO DELAWARE STREET.

5. INSTALL CROSSWALKS AT THE INTERSECTION OF CLAREMONT STREET
AND STH AVENUE ON ALL APPROACHES.

a\GHEE 24" TREE

=H : 6. REMOVE ALL ON-STREET PARKING ALONG BOTH SIDES OF 5TH
: UlUlU U cs te AVENUE FROM EAST OF THE RAILROAD TRACKS TO DELAWARE
! . os : . * 4 a toe |} STREET FOR LANE RESTRIPING, IMPLEMENTATION OF BIKE LANES AND
; eI i SIGHT VISIBILITY.
a; ees f ! | ! Ul Ulululululululul gute UiU UU hg , 7. IMPLEMENT A BICYCLE BOULEVARD ON SOUTH CLAREMONT STREET
Lie , | | . | . | ¢ ; if. ALONG THE PROJECT FRONTAGE,
Hs nC ‘ Ad B. SEE FIRE TRUCK TURNING AND LOADING ZONE PARKING MOVEMENTS
L e} TY on ae 7 r | | ON SHEET C211,
my. v EVA) EV-AFEV-A cfs . = i
| | d | LT | mk | | | WVVylululululU/UluYlu)u)u Ulu uly) lu ul ue re) of Pm
| eae | GUTTER TYPE. "A" PER ITY STANDARD 141A Oo 1o- o eo en — - - ae
iF I 124 SP.I.C RR am a uh UTITY : |
la 7 | ao oo = (SEE NOTE 7 SHEET C10) 7
fet pe od Se a ee el ee de \
a ae — a ~
GRAPHIC SCALE
30 0 30 60

i

[-—omeo 8 By ren. gma]

5,75'-10.0'
(N)

EAST 4TH AVENUE
(LOOKING NORTHEAST)

EXISTING THREE-LANE ROADWAY WITH PARKING

EAST 5TH AVENUE
(LOOKING SOUTHWEST)

EXISTING ROADWAY WITH BIKE LANES

SOUTH CLAREMONT STREET
(LOOKING SOUTHEAST)
EXISTING TWO-LANE ROADWAY WITH PARKING =)

SOUTH RAILROAD AVENUE
{LOOKING NORTHWEST)
EXISTING ONE-LANE ROADWAY =

PROPOSED SECTIONS
NOT TO SCALE

KIKU CROSSING i> 1750, FIRST STREET PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN

SUITE 600

SAN JOSE, CA 95112

ENGINEERS | SURVEYORS / PLANNERS s08-467-3199 (FA) 04/26/21 7 BA R architects pi MidPen C2 ° O

H O U S&S



--- page 71 ---
Com aay aa ts

=] o
Ba See Phir

EAST 4TH AVE.

EAST 4TH AVE.

AASHTO 2011 (U5) 7
| een fila

foo"

San Mateo Fire 201
Custom

|

KIKU CROSSING

IN VFS 30 N. FIRST STREET
= SUITE 600

PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN



--- page 72 ---
— =— —— 5 qT vr - | r | i “| Hei Sel
nn cco 10 SOUTH CLAREMONT T STREET INSTALL DEEPENED CURB TO BE = &

1, 6—-INCHES BELOW BOTTOM
——] TREATNENT ARE mer BRAN ROCK LAYER. :
i}

— rT im

Ss -G=INCHES BELOW BOTTOM OF
curr SORE AND 2— ATMENT AREA DRAIN. ROCK LAYER, Uwe =a ——
CITY STANDARD 141A == tO Ss _ 3

2 ¥ 12
NEW CITY SIDEWALK
PER CITY ‘STANDARD ie

_I it
Bia |

©) snes oN
117.30 \|/) \,
feats Mo,

cE | © GURB

ae FLI17.80

CURB

— CURB RAMP CASE * . 4 fs 4 :
PER: CALTRANS sip m8
i i ay ft — - ;

LEGEND

__ FLtTB.00

NEW ROLLED /CUR

“GUTTER TYPE “8”
or —

a mn

: at

cia 10
i 7.80

(SB)

Ti
a
=

i Hoty.

LL

=]

Tee

a eee

=

ee ea —

NOT INCLUDED IN SCOPE OF WORK
SHOWN FOR REFERENCE ONLY

eLearn rte

_ EAST 4TH AVENUE

te

Se

piteip.

BARA |

SOFTSCAPE  HARDSCAPE — SLOPE DIRECTION
PROPOSED SPOT GRADE

‘ ‘ (1030.50) EXISTING SPOT GRADE

OVERFLOW DRAIN RISER

STORM DRAIN AREA DRAIN

STORM DRAIN CATCH BASIN

re

NOTES

1. ALL STORM DRAIN INLETS SURROUNDING AND WITHIN THE
PROJECT SITE SHALL HAVE THE MARKING "NO DUMPING!
FLOWS TO BAY,"OR EQUIVALENT, USING METHODS
‘APPROVED BY THE CITY STANDARDS, CONSISTENT WITH
THE SAN MATEO COUNTYWIDE WATER POLLUTION
PREVENTION PROGRAM'S C.3 REQUIREMENTS.

GRADING ESTIMATE

CUT:1,800 CY
FILL: 4,100 CY

KIKU CROSSING

ee Ne FIRST STREET

04/26/21

ENGINEERS | SURVEYORS | PLANNERS

= 17 — = =——ae| t + = + -—<—— T + tae
| «tap | | [oxiane | [=r | [41a | | [ewe | ic) ae i =| ea aa ie ee ee i) saya
i 6.) —— — OO I ee OF OO Oo + |] — 7 — — | — | :
————— ‘ 15. ft —<$<——| 1 —] ee en ee i]
| — ae pe ee a a To) LS |
——— 5 — | | (a i |
a eee ee ee ee ee
<= sears i b i { = rr —=—_ — =a | ee == \ — I —} = = : 5 4 rt —— a
| __ F F 12h3 | | wen 'T i ie | i: a iz = | st —. 1. ate = i ti Tal ri | | A | ] | # Ba? ? }21:8 | | | 3 1208 | | | ian = | Feriey |
=) SS = Sf ' ] ] i ] ] — So i 1 en ee | a
—— = : i ———— —-
| i ——— eg, ee ——$ SO — = a $20 —-
Co |— Haass = — == rs ee — === —— ——_ 7 == ——= a == — ——____ —— o
=n oe F =e a i : a = —
P. =f = —— ———— x -X — — yO is ———— =o ~ x =  ———
ee a ie : ot +— ———— : r. i ;
a x # i P 12034 ae é ? a —s
| | 3 { ee F e P 3d = af a go re 2 Y fe = = ry; Fa Fai Y 3

GRAPHIC SCALE

PRELIMINARY NS PLAN

BA R architects



--- page 73 ---
LEGEND KEY NOTE

| — ss —— SANITARY SEWER LINE EXISTING UTILITY STRUCTURE TO BE ADJUSTED TO

NEW FINISH GRADE
wee STORM DRAIN LINE
REMOVE EXISTING CATCH BASIN STRUCTURE AND.
CONNECT TO EXISTING OUTLET STORM DRAIN LINE

PROPOSED FIRE HYDRANT

—— W— DOMESTIC WATER LINE
— FW — FIRE WATER LINE

— JT —— JOINT TRENCH LINE REMOVE EXISTING FIRE HYDRANT

a ——————= CURB CUT
5 i ‘SOMH@ ‘STORM DRAIN MANHOLE

LEAN CONCRETE FILL SHALL BE USED FOR BACKFILL
TO PROTECT FROM LOW FINISH GRADE COVER

é 3000/3001] STORM DRAIN OVERFLOW DRAIN / DROP INLET
1S™6°PERF su SDOD*
(08=0.57MIN Rel \

SDAD ‘STORM DRAIN AREA DRAIN
erw

AS A CONDITION OF APPROVAL, A TRASH CAPTURE
DEVICE, AT MINIMUM, WILL BE REQUIRED AT THE
—_ nl wo WATER METER LAST PRIVATE STORM OUTLET RIGHT BEFORE
ENTERING PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. TRASH CAPTURE
. wy WATER VALVE SHALL MEET THE STATE WATER RESOURCES
[SSS CONTROL BOARD DEFINITION OF FULL CAPTURE.
te — ke es a --—--— - 1: 3;) BACKFLOW PREVENTER ‘SYSTEM. REFER TO MUNICIPAL CODE 7.39.10.

— | FOC & FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION
|
|

© ©©O2 © ©

TEMA POWER RIM120.70

INIT7.83 INvii9.16 ae i FIRE HYDRANT

116.25 s
So BRAN : BIORETENTION AREA NOTES

or 7 A E 4, ALL NEW HYDRANTS SHALL BE CLOW MODEL 960 OR EQUIVALENT

/ | amas AT es-i08 gl | CONSISTING OF (2) 2% INCH AND (1) 4% INCH OUTLET. EACH HYDRANT
6 INNIS 89 Z = \ pote ued” |p _| SHALL BE CAPABLE OF PROVIDING A MINIMUM FIRE FLOW OF 1500 GPM

T1-] 37RD RMIISBO) s¢.t6rsp “ RIMI20.60 FORM xy - '
i INV 43 te RNTI9.80 TE iiss race, |

TF

ol

” INVI19.03

AT 20 PSI RESIDUAL PRESSURE.

19'~8'SD. CLEAR Ip

= ei md
OPER] IN MHEAN@  # J TREATED BY MEDIA FILTER
Fag Ne S05 sp Neo wntess | NI | 13127 NY
al

= _ bly 2. WATER SUPPLY FOR FIRE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED TO BE INSTALLED IN
Ce oe @ ee Fy es. se? ee ee ee ee ACCORDANCE WITH CALIFORNIA WATER SERVICE SPECIFICATIONS. THE

I bs | WATER SUPPLY SHALL BE TESTED, FLUSHED AND APPROVED OPERABLE
I PRIOR TO ANY COMBUSTIBLE CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS BEING PLACED

— (E), SINT POLE

ON THE SITE. STAGED CONSTRUCTION SHALL INSURE THAT THE
NECESSARY WATER SUPPLY IS MAINTAINED FROM STAGE TO STAGE IN
THE CONSTRUCTION PLANNING,

CONN 8k

19. E
= aS RIMI20.30 |*/
| yi. invitaig | fy

‘Sh, Rati9.30 A 5=1.0%
fh
|

RIMT19.80
‘OOTING | wvit7.88 "=\8 inviig.66 / 3. MAINTAIN A 3-FOOT CLEAR SPACE AROUND ALL FIRE HYDRANTS.
hd “| ave HYDRANTS SHALL BE INSTALLED, TESTED, FLUSHED AND APPROVED BY
THE FIRE DEPARTMENT PRIOR TO ANY COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS BROUGHT

ONTO THE WORK SITE.

Rw120.80\ [\/
_4INVIIB.91 is
3

4, ALL STORM DRAIN INLETS SURROUNDING AND WITHIN THE PROJECT SITE
‘SHALL HAVE THE MARKING "NO DUMPING! FLOWS TO BAY,"OR
EQUIVALENT, USING METHODS APPROVED BY THE CITY STANDARDS,
CONSISTENT WITH THE SAN MATEO COUNTYWIDE WATER POLLUTION
PREVENTION PROGRAM'S C.3 REQUIREMENTS.

mee aeTReE Te TCE (oy

UU ULU)U U UUlUlu ul ulU
7 v © =

E RIMT21.00 : Ri
21.00 WVTT9.10 q
INvi19.50 i

awi20.00
iNvtt7.60

RI 2050~
wNvit7.50

Earnie!

=9-" o ~ © oo - > eG

= ar =
124 SP-TC RR & UTUTY ole Vl Eg

SMT 70 REMAN INV 11850 INV 11850
NOTE 7 ON SHET C0)

*

GRAPHIC SCALE

30 to) 30 60

KIKU CROSSING ys wR se PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN

Spe. 04/26/21 BAR architects MidPen)) eo)

HOUSING



--- page 74 ---
SOUTH CLAREMONT STREET

PDA-1

Ill

/ALL ON-SITE PERIMETER AREAS AND PLAZAS
WILL BE ROUTED TO THE APPLICABLE DRAINAGE
MANAGEMENT AREAS. AND WILL BE TREATED.
TREATMENT WILL BE PROVIDED, BUT NOT LIMITED,
BY A BIORETENTION AREA, SELF—RETAINING
AREA, TREE CREDITS ETC.

| A

ee

——4

DMA-5

[
si . o "
|

|
|
|
|
|
—

af ulalulolululu lu v((EoRAl

a a a a

NOT INCLUDED IN SCOPE OF WORK
SHOWN FOR REFERENCE ONLY

UU U PU Ulu UY

a
|
|
|
|

N34 M34 AB ABS

LEGEND

DRAINAGE AREA BOUNDARY

MEDIA FILTER

BIORETENTION TREATMENT AREA

NOTES.

1. TREATMENT SOIL MIX SHALL MEET REQUIREMENTS AS SPECIFIED IN THE SAN
MATEO COUNTYWIDE WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PROGRAM C.3
STORMWATER HANDBOOK DATED 2014 IN APPENDIX K.

S

THE BIOTREATMENT SOIL MIX USED IN ALL BIORETENTION AREAS SHALL
COMPLY WITH THE SPECIFICATIONS IN ATTACHMENT L OF THE RWQCB
MUNICIPAL REGIONAL PERMIT. IF THE BIOTREATMENT SOIL MIX SUPPLIER IS
INCLUDED ON SCVURPPP’S "BIOTREATMENT SOIL MIX SUPPLIER LIST”
(SUPPLIER LIST), A BIOTREATMENT SOIL MIX SUPPLIER CERTIFICATION
STATEMENT (CERTIFICATION STATEMENT) SHALL BE COMPLETED BY THE
‘SUPPLIER AND SUBMITTED TO THE CITY/PROJECT ENGINEER A MINIMUM OF
14 DAYS PRIOR TO DELIVERY OF THE MATERIAL TO THE JOB SITE. IF THE
BIOTREATMENT SOIL MIX SUPPLIER IS NOT INCLUDED ON THE SUPPLIER LIST,
A BIOTREATMENT SOILS MIX VERIFICATION CHECKLIST (VERIFICATION
CHECKLIST) SHALL BE COMPLETED BY THE SUPPLIER AND SUBMITTED TO THE
CITY/PROJECT ENGINEER A MINIMUM OF 14 DAYS PRIOR TO DELIVERY OF THE
MATERIAL TO THE JOB SITE. COPIES OF THE SUPPLIER LIST, CERTIFICATION
STATEMENT AND VERIFICATION CHECKLIST CAN BE DOWNLOADED FROM THE
COUNTYWIDE PROGRAM'S WEBSITE AT

HITTP: / /WWIW.FLOWSTOBAY.ORG/NEWDEVELOPMENT

PERMEABLE DRAIN ROCK SHALL BE CLASS ll, PER CALTRANS STANDARD
SECTION 68-1.025. THE MATERIAL SHALL BE WASHED AND FREE FROM CLAY
OR ORGANIC MATERIAL.

o

Aad ABS ABS Gd

. PERFORATED PIPE SHALL BE SOLVENT WELD PVC SDR 35 (OR APPROVED
= i EQUAL) WITH PERFORATIONS FACED DOWN. LOCATION OF THE PIPE VARIES,
} ‘SEE PLAN.

T
=
2
;
“
=
=
&

t

FOR ANY LINER PENETRATIONS, RADIAL-CUT THE LINER FOR PIPE. MASTIC
= AND SEAL WITH PIPE CLAMP TO INSURE WATER-TIGHT SEAL.

I --_o
12.4" S.P.T.C RR & UTIUTY

7 OO OO

a

ALL STORM DRAIN INLETS SURROUNDING AND WITHIN THE PROJECT
ESMT TO REMAIN. ‘SITE SHALL HAVE THE MARKING “NO DUMPING! FLOWS TO BAY,"OR
. e A 1 ‘ Z } (SEE NOTE 7 ON SHEET CI.0) - EQUIVALENT, USING METHODS APPROVED BY THE CITY STANDARDS,
| - jh ‘ CONSISTENT WITH THE SAN MATEO COUNTYWIDE WATER POLLUTION
5 = £ 7 PREVENTION PROGRAM'S C.3 REQUIREMENTS.
+ +

TREATMENT CONTROL MEASURE SUMMARY

WATER QUANTITY (FLOW AND/OR
VOLUME GENERATED)

REQUIRED (SQ. FT.) | PROVIDED (SQ. FT.)

DRAINAGE
AREA SIZE
(SQ, FT.)

PERVIOUS
SURFACE
(SQ, FT.)

PERVIOUS
SURFACE x 0.1
(SQ, FT.)

DRAINAGE ‘TYPE OF PERVIOUS:

‘SURFACE

IMPERVIOUS AREA
(SQ. FT.)

EFFECTIVE IMPERVIOUS
‘AREA (SQFT.)

‘TYPE OF
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE

PROPOSED TREATMENT
CONTROLS

ROOF
DA-1 18,660 5,185 519 LANDSCAPE 13,475 13,994 CONCRETE 560 565 BIORETENTION AREA

6°DAM, BUBBLER ASS'Y,

(F SHOWN ON PLAN)
90° PVC EL

ROOF
CONCRETE

DA-2 19,376 4,776 478 LANDSCAPE 14,600 15,078 BIORETENTION AREA

ROOF
9,976 CONCRETE 399 443

2,861 286 LANDSCAPE 9,690 BIORETENTION AREA

ec yy

be al le Jae ae 5
2 2

18° MIN, TREATMENT
SOIL-INFILTRATION

RATE 5 TO 10 IN/HR
(SEE NOTE 1)

2~4°COBBLESTONES

NOT INCLUDED IN SCOPE OF WORK

SHOWN FOR REFERENCE ONLY

SELF-RETAINING AREA

‘SELF-RETAINING AREA

6" PERFORATED UNDERORAN

(SLOPE AT O.SRMIN.) SEE
NATIVE. OR IMPORTED FILL- UTILITY PLAN FOR LOCATION OF
‘SCARIFIED AND COMPACTED PIPE.

ON LID TREATMENT AREA SUMMARY

NON-LID
TREATMENT AREA

MTs ITUDINA
NIS.

PERCENTAGE

“7B27SF | (653 ALLOWED)

55%

UD TREATMENT
AREA

\.

30 0 30 60

PRELIMINARY STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN

38,913SF | PERCENTAGE 45%

GRAPHIC SCALE

NTS.

1730 N. FIRST STREET
SUITE 600

KIKU CROSSING

A 95112
9100
9199 (FAX)

ENGINEERS | SURVEYORS | PLANNERS.

HOUSING



--- page 75 ---
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
2/23/2021 1:19:58 PM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/San Mateo Downtown - A.rvt
KIKU CROSSING
17009
Unnamed
2019
A2.33
03/01/21
30
04/26/21
LANDSCAPE PLAN - HOUSING BLOCK
L101
1.    PUBLIC PLAZA
2.    PUBLIC SEATING AREA AT PLAZA
3.    CONCRETE PAVING PATTERN INSPIRED BY JAPANESE ASANOHA FLORAL PATTERN
4.    NATIVE PLANTING GARDEN W/ FLOWERING TREES (QTY OF TREES: 7)
5.    CONCRETE SIDEWALK PAVING
6.    EXISTING STREET LIGHT POLE
7.	
EXISTING PEDESTRIAN LIGHT POLE
8.    RELOCATED EXISTING STREET LIGHT POLE 
9.    RELOCATED EXISTING PEDESTRIAN LIGHT POLE
10.  STREET TREES: 
              EAST 4TH AVENUE - QUERCUS SHUMARDII (QTY: 4)
              SOUTH CLAREMONT STREET - PRUNUS SERRULATA ‘KWANZAN’ (QTY: 6)
11.  FIRE HYDRANT
12.  TRANSFORMER / PG&E VAULT
13.  PATIO
14.  CURB RAMP
15.  10’ x 40’ LOADING ZONE 
16.  WATER METERS (BACKFLOW PREVENTORS LOCATED INSIDE BUILDING)
17.  PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE ABOVE
18.  EMERGENCY VEHICLE ACCESS
19.  SIDEWALK BULBOUT
20.	 CLASS II SHORT TERM BIKE PARKING (TOTAL 11 BIKE RACKS)
21.  ENTRY GATE
22.  CONCRETE WALKWAY IN COURTYARD
23.  COMMUNITY COURTYARD WITH BENCHES
24.  ELECTRIC BBQ GRILL
25.  TRASH RECEPTACLE FOR TRASH AND RECYCLING
26.  SMALL COURTYARD SEATING WITH WOOD BENCHES  
27.  LAWN AREA WITH SYNTHETIC GRASS 
28.  PLAY AREA 
29.	 PLANTING AREA W/ NATIVE AND DROUGHT TOLERANT PLANTS
30.  ACCESS TO FIRE CONTROL ROOM
31.  TRASH STAGING AREA
32.  BIOSWALE
33.  TREES IN COURTYARD AND ON-SITE PERIMETER (QTY OF TREES: 28)
34.  GLASS WALL
35.  COVERED PLANTING AREA
36.  BIORETENTION PLANTER
37.  RELOCATED EXISTING STREET LIGHT POLE WITH MEMORIAL PLAQUE TO REMAIN 
4
3
2
10
13
13
A
A
1
5
5
B
B
EAST 5TH AVENUE
EAST 4TH AVENUE
SOUTH RAILROAD AVENUE
SOUTH CLAREMONT STREET
C
C
E
E
LEGEND
LOBBY
COMMUNITY 
ROOM
BIKE 
ROOM
LEARNING 
CENTER
TRASH 
ROOM
6
8
14
16
17
21
19
22
23
24
27
28
26
26
10
14
0
8’
16’
32’
N
SCALE:  1/16” = 1’-0”
D 
D
7
9
7
7
29
6
10
29
29
34
35
8
11
20
20
20
20
25
25
33
12
12
12
12
11
MECH 
ROOM
ELECTRIC
STORAGE
FIRE 
ROOM
31
30
G
G
33
12
12
32
36
36
32
29
10
10
10
18
18
MPOE 
ROOM
32
33
33
(OWNED BY PENNINSULA CORRIDOR JOINT POWERS BOARD)
5
11
36
15
12
12
5
33
33
20
20
ELEVATOR 
LOBBY
33
37
5’+
11

--- page 76 ---
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
2/23/2021 1:19:58 PM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/San Mateo Downtown - A.rvt
KIKU CROSSING
17009
Unnamed
2019
A2.33
03/01/21
30
LANDSCAPE PLAN - 7TH FLOOR
L103
1.    PEDESTAL PAVERS
2.    RAISED PLANTERS
3     OPEN SPACE FOR FUTURE MOVABLE FURNITURE  
4.    TRASH RECEPTACLE FOR TRASH AND RECYCLING 
5.	
SEATING BENCHES 
6.	
OVERHEAD TRELLIS AT GATHERING SPACE
7.    PARAPET WALL
LEGEND
1
4
3
5
6
7
2
0
4’
12’
24’
N
SCALE:  3/16” = 1’-0”
MECHANICAL 
EQUIPMENT
ELEVATOR
2
7
5
2
1
3

--- page 77 ---
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
2/23/2021 1:19:58 PM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/San Mateo Downtown - A.rvt
KIKU CROSSING
17009
Unnamed
2019
A2.33
03/01/21
30
LANDSCAPE STREETSCAPE SECTIONS
L104
SECTION A-A:  EAST 5TH AVENUE AT HOUSING LOT
SECTION B-B:  SOUTH CLAREMONT STREET
6’-0”+
SIDEWALK
6”
CURB
6”
CURB
4’-0”
STREET
TREE 
PLANTING
PLANTING
4” 1’-5”
9’-9”
PLANTING
8’-9”
SIDEWALK
14’-2”
PUBLIC PLAZA
1’-8”
WOOD 
BENCH
8’-6”
NATIVE PLANTING 
GARDEN WITH 
FLOWERING TREES
E. 5TH AVE
PRIVATE UNIT PATIO
S. CLAREMONT
AVE
SECTION C-C:  EAST 4TH AVENUE AT PLAZA
SECTION D-D:  EAST 4TH AVENUE     
SECTION F-F:  EAST 5TH AVENUE AT PARKING GARAGE 
SECTION G-G:  BIOSWALE AT HOUSING LOT
E. 4TH AVE
E. 4TH AVE
SECTION E-E:  SOUTH RAILROAD AVENUE
PLANTING
PLANTING
S. RAILROAD
AVE
E. 5TH AVE
6’-6”+/-
SIDEWALK
PROPERTY
LINE
PROPERTY
LINE
PROPERTY
LINE
PROPERTY
LINE
9’-0”+/-
PLANTING WITH 
SHADE TREES 
6’-0”
SIDEWALK
5’-0”
SIDEWALK
16’-8”
BIOSWALE WITH 
STORMWATER 
TREATMENT PLANTING
4’-2”
PLANTING
3’-3”
PLANTING
1’-0”
4’-6”+/-
STREET
TREE 
PLANTING
5”
3’-3”
9’-10”
4’-6”
SIDEWALK
4’-6”
PLANTING
PROPERTY
LINE
PROPERTY
LINE
6”
CURB
6”
CURB
6”
CURB

--- page 78 ---
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
2/23/2021 1:19:58 PM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/San Mateo Downtown - A.rvt
KIKU CROSSING
17009
Unnamed
2019
A2.33
03/01/21
30
04/26/21
TREE EVALUATION SCHEDULE & REQUIRED TREE PLANTING FORM 
L404
Tag #
Species 
Fate: 
Preserved/ 
Removed
Species 
Value %
Condition 
Value %
Location 
Value %
Plus      
0.35
DBH's
Caliper@ 
48"
Bldg./ 
Setback
Heritgage 
1.25
LU       
Value
60
Quercus 
agrifolia
Save
0.9
0.6
0.5
0.35
17.5
18
1
1.25
17.36
61
Quercus 
agrifolia
Save
0.9
0.8
0.5
0.35
11
11.5
1
1.25
14.79
32.14
Tag #
Species 
Fate: 
Preserved/ 
Removed
Species 
Value %
Condition 
Value %
Location 
Value %
Plus      
0.35
DBH's
Caliper@ 
48"
Bldg./ 
Setback
Heritgage 
1.25
LU       
Value
1
Pistacia 
chinensis
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.35
7
7.5
0.7
1
6.72
2
Pistacia 
chinensis
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.35
3
3
0.7
1
2.69
3
Pistacia 
chinensis
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.35
8
8.5
0.7
1
7.62
4
Eucalyptus 
nicholii
Remove
0.7
0.7
0.8
0.35
19.5
20
1
1.25
28.00
5
Eucalyptus 
nicholii
Remove
0.7
0.4
0.8
0.35
4
4
1
1
2.56
6
Eucalyptus 
nicholii
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.35
28
28.5
1
1.25
45.60
7
Eucalyptus 
nicholii
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.35
28
28.5
1
1.25
45.60
8
Eucalyptus 
nicholii
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.35
32
32.5
1
1.25
52.00
9
Celtis 
sinensis
Remove
0.5
0.7
0.8
0.35
9
9.5
1
1
7.60
10
Celtis 
sinensis
Remove
0.5
0.7
0.8
0.35
10.5
11
1
1
8.80
11
Celtis 
sinensis
Remove
0.5
0.6
0.8
0.35
10
10.5
1
1
7.20
12
Celtis 
sinensis
Remove
0.5
0.6
0.8
0.35
12
12.5
1
1
8.57
13
Celtis 
sinensis
Remove
0.5
0.7
0.8
0.35
10
10.5
1
1
8.40
14
Celtis 
sinensis
Remove
0.5
0.7
0.8
0.35
12.5
13
1
1
10.40
15
Prunus 
caroliniana
Remove
0.7
0.4
0.6
0.35
5, 3, 2, 2
6.5
0.7
1
2.18
16
Prunus 
caroliniana
Remove
0.7
0.5
0.6
0.35
2, 2, 2.5, 2
3.5
0.7
1
1.47
17
Prunus 
caroliniana
Remove
0.7
0.4
0.6
0.35
2
2
0.7
1
0.67
18
Prunus 
caroliniana
Remove
0.7
0.2
0.6
0.35
4.5
4.5
0.7
1
0.76
19
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
11
11.5
0.7
1
7.73
20
Prunus 
caroliniana
Remove
0.7
0.5
0.6
0.35
6
6
0.7
1
2.52
21
Prunus 
caroliniana
Remove
0.7
0.4
0.6
0.35
4
4
0.7
1
1.34
22
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.35
13
13.5
0.7
1
7.94
23
Prunus 
caroliniana
Remove
0.7
0.5
0.6
0.35
7
7.5
0.7
1
3.15
24
Prunus 
caroliniana
Remove
0.7
0.2
0.6
0.35
3, 2.5
4
0.7
1
0.67
25
Prunus 
caroliniana
Remove
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.35
5.5
5.5
0.7
1
2.77
26
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.35
12.5
13
0.7
1
7.64
27
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.35
12
12.5
0.7
1
7.35
28
Pistacia 
chinensis
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
8
8.5
0.7
1
5.71
67  removed
LU VALUE IS: 
533.28
2 preserved
LU VALUE IS:
32.14
69 trees total
LU VALUE IS:
565.42
FORMULA FOR LU VALUE:
Spec.
X Cond.
X Loc.
plus .35  
x Cal.
1
X   1.0
= LU  VALUE
 LU  Values
Total Trees:  69
44
Tristaniopsi
s laurina
Remove
0.9
0.5
0.6
0.35
4
4
0.7
1
2.16
45
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.35
13
13.5
0.7
1
7.94
46
Pistacia 
chinensis
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.7
0.35
5.5
6
1
1
6.72
47
Platanus x 
hispanica
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.7
0.35
10.5
11
1
1
12.32
48
Platanus x 
hispanica
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
9.5
10
1
1
9.60
49
Platanus x 
hispanica
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
9.5
10
1
1
9.60
50
Platanus x 
hispanica
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
9
9.5
1
1
9.12
51
Platanus x 
hispanica
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
9
9.5
1
1
9.12
52
Platanus x 
hispanica
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
9
9.5
1
1
9.12
53
Platanus x 
hispanica
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
11
11.5
1
1
11.04
54
Platanus x 
hispanica
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
10
10.5
1
1
10.08
55
Platanus x 
hispanica
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
8
8.5
1
1
8.16
56
Pinus pinea
Remove
0.7
0.5
0.5
0.35
5, 6
8
1
1
4.00
57
Platanus x 
hispanica
Remove
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.35
6
6.5
1
1
3.90
58
Platanus x 
hispanica
Remove
0.7
0.3
0.5
0.35
4.5
4.5
1
1
1.35
59
Platanus x 
hispanica
Remove
0.7
0.4
0.5
0.35
4
4
1
1
1.60
62
Ulmus 
parvifolia
Remove
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.35
5, 3, 3
6.5
1
1
5.46
63
Fraxinus 
oxycarpa 
'Raywood'
Remove
0.3
0.7
0.6
0.35
7.5
8
1
1
2.88
64
Fraxinus 
oxycarpa 
'Raywood'
Remove
0.3
0.7
0.6
0.35
11
11.5
1
1
4.14
65
Fraxinus 
oxycarpa 
'Raywood'
Remove
0.3
0.7
0.6
0.35
10
10.5
1
1
3.78
66
Fraxinus 
oxycarpa 
'Raywood'
Remove
0.3
0.7
0.6
0.35
10.5
11
1
1
3.96
67
Fraxinus 
oxycarpa 
'Raywood'
Remove
0.3
0.7
0.6
0.35
10
10.5
1
1
3.78
68
Pistacia 
chinensis
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.7
0.35
7.5
8
1
1
8.96
69
Pistacia 
chinensis
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.7
0.35
9.5
10
1
1
11.20
533.28
29
Pistacia 
chinensis
Remove
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.35
8
8
0.7
1
4.70
30
Pistacia 
chinensis
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
8.5
9
0.7
1
6.05
31
Pistacia 
chinensis
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
8
8.5
0.7
1
5.71
32
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.35
13
13.5
0.7
1
7.94
33
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.2
0.6
0.35
8
8.5
0.7
1
1.43
34
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.35
12
12.5
0.7
1
7.35
35
Albizia 
julibrissin
Remove
0.5
0.8
0.6
0.35
10.5
11
0.7
1
5.28
36
Albizia 
julibrissin
Remove
0.5
0.7
0.6
0.35
10
10.5
0.7
1
4.41
37
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
10.5
11
0.7
1
7.39
38
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
11.5
12
0.7
1
8.06
39
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.35
10
10.5
0.7
1
6.17
40
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
9
9.5
0.7
1
6.38
41
Nerium 
oleander
Remove
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.35
5.5
5.5
0.7
1
1.65
42
Nerium 
oleander
Remove
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.35
5
5
0.7
1
1.50
43
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.35
9
9.5
0.7
1
5.59
Tag #
Species 
Fate: 
Preserved/ 
Removed
Species 
Value %
Condition 
Value %
Location 
Value %
Plus      
0.35
DBH's
Caliper@ 
48"
Bldg./ 
Setback
Heritgage 
1.25
LU       
Value
LU Values for Trees Removed (onsite and offsite)
LU Values for Trees Preserved (onsite)
Required Tree Planting Form (onsite only)
LU Values for Trees Removed (onsite and offsite)
 
31 
The Planning Application Guide 
 
Required Tree Planting  
Zoning Code, Section 27.71 – Landscape, requires all projects to have a minimum ratio of 1 tree per 400 square feet of landscaped area.  Existing 
trees that are a minimum of 6-inch diameter may count toward this total.   
 
Landscape Area:                         sq. ft.  ÷ 400 =  
          
 
                               (a) 
 
Number of existing trees from Tree Evaluation Schedule 
with a 6 inch or greater diameter to be preserved: 
 
______________(b) 
                                 
 
Landscape Unit (LU) value of trees to be removed  
from the Tree Evaluation Schedule: 
 
 
 
                                (c) 
 
Minimum LU value to be replaced and/or met 
through payment of in-lieu fees:  [a – b + c =  d]  
 
                                (d) 
 
New Trees: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A “landscape unit” (LU) value equivalent to (d) above, must either be planted on site, or an “in-lieu” fee paid to the city’s street tree planting 
fund.  If the LU value shown at (e) is not equal or greater than (d), then an in-lieu fee must be paid to the City’s street tree planting fund at the 
rate defined annually in the City’s Comprehensive Fee Schedule for each deficient LU. 
 
New Trees Being Planted* 
Quantity 
Size 
LU Value 
Total LU Value 
 
15 gallon 
1 
 
 
24 inch box 
2 
 
 
36 inch box 
3 
 
 
48 inch box 
4 
 
Total LU Value of new trees being proposed: 
 (e) 
*New replacement trees shall be in addition to and not substitute requirements for new street 
trees, parking lot trees or other required trees. 
 
Fees Owed to the City Street Tree Planting Fund: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If (d) is greater than (e), there will be an LU value deficit calculated as follows: 
 
[d – e  =   ____  x  (the annually defined $ per LU value as per 
                                    Current Comprehensive Fee Schedule)  
 
 
            =  $______________ 
12,208
30.52
2
308.55
337.07
70
35
85,729.47
267.07
70
$321.00
City Street trees
City Street trees
City Street trees
City Street trees
City Street trees
City Street trees
City Street trees
City Street trees
City Street trees
City Street trees
City Street trees
Tag #
Species 
Fate: 
Preserved/ 
Removed
Species 
Value %
Condition 
Value %
Location 
Value %
Plus      
0.35
DBH's
Caliper@ 
48"
Bldg./ 
Setback
Heritgage 
1.25
LU       
Value
LU Values for Trees Removed (onsite and offsite)

--- page 79 ---
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
6/15/2020 9:16:42 AM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
SHADOW STUDY
2019
A104
06.15.20
15
30
60
90
0
SCALE: 1" = 30'-0"
1" = 100'-0"
SUMMER SOLSTICE @ 2PM
1" = 100'-0"
SUMMER SOLSTICE @ NOON
1" = 100'-0"
SUMMER SOLSTICE @ 1PM
1" = 100'-0"
WINTER SOLSTICE @ NOON
1" = 100'-0"
WINTER SOLSTICE @ 1PM
1" = 100'-0"
WINTER SOLSTICE @ 2PM
1" = 100'-0"
SPRING/FALL EQUINOX @ NOON
1" = 100'-0"
SPRING/FALL EQUINOX @ 1PM
1" = 100'-0"
SPRING/FALL EQUINOX @ 2PM
AS APPROVED

--- page 80 ---
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
3/30/2021 1:52:02 PM
C:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A - True North_lwangC7LF3.rvt
KIKU CROSSING
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
SHADOW STUDY
2021
A104
03/30/21
1" = 100'-0"
SPRING/FALL EQUINOX @ 1PM
1" = 100'-0"
SPRING/FALL EQUINOX @ 2PM
1" = 100'-0"
SPRING/FALL EQUINOX @ NOON
1" = 100'-0"
SUMMER SOLSTICE @ 1PM
1" = 100'-0"
SUMMER SOLSTICE @ 2PM
1" = 100'-0"
SUMMER SOLSTICE @ NOON
1" = 100'-0"
WINTER SOLSTICE @ NOON
1" = 100'-0"
WINTER SOLSTICE @ 2PM
1" = 100'-0"
WINTER SOLSTICE @ 1PM
AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED

--- page 81 ---
1
A322
________________________
1
A322
________________________
A302
1
A301
1
A301
2
A302
2
1
A321
________________________
1
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
1,734 SF
COMMUNITY
ROOM
UTILITY
STORAGE
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
S CLAREMONT ST
E 4TH AVE
E 5TH AVE
S RAILROAD AVE
BUILDING 
PROJECTION ABOVE
BUILDING 
PROJECTION
ABOVE
OUTLINE OF BLDG ABOVE
BACKFLOW PREVENTERS, 
SCD
PG&E UCD
TRANSFORMER, SCD
GAS
METER, SCD
TRASH CHUTES ABOVE
JAN
OUTLINE OF 
STRUCTURE ON 
ADJACENT 
PROPERTY
BIKE RACK
BIKE RACK
LOADING ZONE, SCD
(E) LIGHTPOLE
(E) LIGHTPOLE
NEW CURB RAMP
NEW CURB
RAMP, SCD
BIKE RACK
FIRE HYDRANT
(E) LIGHTPOLE
BIKE RACK
(E) LIGHTPOLE
(E) UTILITY POLE
(E) LIGHTPOLE
(E) UTILITY POLE
FIRE HYDRANT
(E) LIGHTPOLE
(E) UTILITY POLE
FDC, SCD
(E) LIGHTPOLE
FIRE HYDRANT
(E) LIGHTPOLE
FLOOR AREA LEGEND
AMENITY
CIRC
UNIT
UTILITY
BUILDING PROJECTION
(ABOVE)
BUILDING PROJECTION 
(ABOVE)
BRIDGE PROJECTION (ABOVE)
4 YD
4 YD
4 YD
CONFERENCE
3BD
3BD
2BD
1BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
3BD
3BD
STUDIO
2BD
STUDIO
3BD
2BD
1BD
1BD
3BD
2BD
1,058 SF
LEARNING
CENTER
UTILITY
STAIR
STO
OFFICE
SERVICES
WC
SERVICES
OFFICE
LOBBY
UTILITY
4 YD
4 YD
FG 121' - 0"
FG 121' - 0"
FG 121' - 6"
TRASH
MPOE
MECH/MAINT
FIRE
CONTROL
ROOM
MAINT
BIKE RM
CIRC
STAIR
TRASH STAGING AREA
CURB CUT AT TRASH
JAN
UTILITY
ELEV
ELEV
FG 121' - 0"
229' - 11 1/2"
220' - 1 1/2"
(E) LIGHTPOLE
BIKE MAINTENANCE 
& STORAGE
121' - 6"
121' - 6"
121' - 6"
3' - 0"
221' - 8"
5' - 3 1/2"
4' - 0"
25' - 0"
109' - 0"
23' - 8"
58' - 4"
1' - 8"
3' - 8"
49' - 4"
92' - 0"
60' - 0"
3' - 0"
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
37' - 0"
18' - 0"
24' - 0"
54' - 0"
44' - 0"
2' - 0"
18' - 0"
208' - 0"
4' - 0"
1' - 8"
214' - 7"
3' - 7"
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
151' - 0"
26' - 0"
1' - 9 1/2"
218' - 4"
2BD
STUDIO
2BD
BUILDING 
PROJECTION ABOVE
BUILDING PROJECTION 
ABOVE
BUILDING PROJECTION 
(ABOVE)
5,961.5 SF*
3,788.5 SF
17,525.6 SF
3,677.1 SF
2,687 SF
*BIKE ROOM EXEMPT FROM AREA
SEE SHEET G512
TOTAL NET FLOOR AREA 
30,952.7 SF
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
6/15/2020 9:16:46 AM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
SITE & FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 01 - HOUSING BLOCK
2019
A201
06.15.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A201
1
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 01 - HOUSING BLOCK
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
AS APPROVED

--- page 82 ---
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
S CLAREMONT ST
E 4TH AVE
E 5TH AVE
S RAILROAD AVE
BUILDING 
PROJECTION
ABOVE
OUTLINE OF BLDG ABOVE
BACKFLOW PREVENTERS, 
SCD
PG&E UCD
TRANSFORMER, SCD
TRASH CHUTES ABOVE
BIKE RACK
LOADING ZONE, SCD
(E) LIGHTPOLE
NEW CURB RAMP
NEW CURB
RAMP, SCD
BIKE RACK
FIRE HYDRANT
(E) LIGHTPOLE
BIKE RACK
(E) LIGHTPOLE
(E) UTILITY POLE
(E) LIGHTPOLE
(E) UTILITY POLE
FIRE HYDRANT
(E) LIGHTPOLE
(E) UTILITY POLE
FDC, SCD
(E) LIGHTPOLE
FIRE HYDRANT
(E) LIGHTPOLE
AMENITY
CIRC
UNIT
UTILITY
BUILDING PROJECTION
(ABOVE)
BUILDING PROJECTION 
(ABOVE)
BRIDGE PROJECTION (ABOVE)
FG 0' - 0"
FG 0' - 6"
TRASH STAGING AREA
CURB CUT AT TRASH
FG 0' - 0"
(E) LIGHTPOLE
BIKE MAINTENANCE & 
STORAGE
0' - 6"
0' - 6"
A304
2
A301
1
A302
1
A303
1
BUILDING 
PROJECTION ABOVE
BUILDING PROJECTION 
(ABOVE)
5,495.1 SF*
4,265.6 SF
15,647.2 SF
3,387.8 SF
2,138 SF
*BIKE ROOM EXEMPT FROM AREA
SEE SHEET G512
TOTAL NET FLOOR AREA 
28,795.7 SF
3' - 4"
20' - 11 1/2"
110' - 6"
21' - 4 1/2"
57' - 10"
3' - 3"
3' - 3"
40' - 8 1/2"
52' - 2 1/2"
31' - 3 1/2"
17' - 7 1/2"
31' - 10 1/2"
30' - 4"
3' - 3"
3' - 7"
210' - 6 1/2"
5' - 8 1/2"
6' - 2"
217' - 3"
6' - 5"
3' - 3"
46' - 2 1/2"
93' - 1"
56' - 7 1/2"
3' - 3"
6' - 6"
202' - 5"
21' - 0"
3' - 3"
30' - 10 1/2"
25' - 11"
21' - 9"
105' - 1"
19' - 4 1/2"
5' - 1"
2' - 11"
211' - 4"
5' - 9"
LEARNING
CENTER
ELEC
MECH
TRASH
COMMUNITY
ROOM
STOR
FILE
STORAGE
MAINT
MPOE
FIRE
CONTROL
STORAGE
WC
STORAGE
WC
PROP
MGMT
PROP
MGMT
COPY
STOR
SERVICES
CONF
SERVICESSERVICES
LOBBY
BIKE RACK
(E) LIGHTPOLE
BIKE RACK
METAL SUNSHADE PROJECTION (ABOVE)
3BD
3BD
2BD
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
3BD
1BD
1BD
3BD
2BD - S
STUDIO -
S
2BD
3BD
1BD
BIKE RM
STAIR
STAIR
IDF
CORRIDOR
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
2BD
3BD
WATER
HEATER
ELEV
MACH
IDF
ELEV
ELEV
STORAGE
IT
FLOOR AREA LEGEND
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
4/26/2021 12:15:06 PM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/San Mateo Downtown - A.rvt
KIKU CROSSING
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
SITE & FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 01 - HOUSING BLOCK
2021
A201
03/30/21
1/16" = 1'-0"
A201
1
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 01 - HOUSING BLOCK ENTL
AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED
968 SF
1,358 SF

--- page 83 ---
1
A322
________________________
1
A322
________________________
A302
1
A301
1
A301
2
A302
2
1
A321
________________________
1
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
STAIR
UTILITY
LAUNDRY
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
OPEN TO 
BELOW
TRASH
BUILDING 
PROJECTION ABOVE
BUILDING PROJECTION 
ABOVE
3BD
3BD
2BD
1BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
3BD
3BD
STUDIO
2BD
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
3BD
2BD
1BD
1BD
3BD
2BD
2BD
2BD
STUDIO
1BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
STUDIO
2BD
JAN
STAIR
CIRC
CIRC
UTILITY
JAN
UTILITY
3' - 0"
221' - 8"
5' - 3 1/2"
3' - 0"
26' - 0"
109' - 0"
23' - 8"
3' - 0"
50' - 0"
92' - 0"
29' - 6"
51' - 6"
18' - 0"
208' - 0"
4' - 0"
1' - 8"
214' - 7"
3' - 7"
151' - 0"
1' - 9 1/2"
218' - 4"
STUDIO
STUDIO
ELEV
ELEV
476.1 SF
3,907.1 SF*
27,874.9 SF
586.4 SF
FLOOR AREA LEGEND
AMENITY
CIRC
UNIT
UTILITY
*ELEVATOR AND STAIR SHAFTS 
ABOVE GRADE EXEMPT FROM 
AREA, SEE SHEETS G002 & G512
TOTAL NET FLOOR AREA 
32,844.5 SF
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
6/15/2020 9:16:47 AM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 02 - HOUSING BLOCK
2019
A202
06.15.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A202
1
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 02 - HOUSING BLOCK
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
AS APPROVED

--- page 84 ---
D
WD
W
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
OPEN TO 
BELOW
BUILDING 
PROJECTION ABOVE
BUILDING 
PROJECTION ABOVE
A304
2
A301
1
A302
1
A303
1
275.3 SF
4,522.9 SF*
23,913.3 SF
868.2 SF
AMENITY
CIRC
UNIT
UTILITY
*ELEVATOR AND STAIR SHAFTS 
ABOVE GRADE EXEMPT FROM 
AREA, SEE SHEETS G002 & G512
TOTAL NET FLOOR AREA 
29,579.7 SF
3' - 4"
20' - 11 1/2"
110' - 6"
21' - 4 1/2"
57' - 10"
3' - 3"
3' - 3"
40' - 8 1/2"
52' - 2 1/2"
31' - 3 1/2"
17' - 7 1/2"
31' - 10 1/2"
30' - 4"
3' - 3"
3' - 7"
210' - 6 1/2"
5' - 8 1/2"
6' - 2"
217' - 3"
6' - 5"
3' - 3"
46' - 2 1/2"
93' - 1"
56' - 7 1/2"
3' - 3"
6' - 6"
202' - 5"
21' - 0"
3' - 3"
30' - 10 1/2"
25' - 11"
21' - 9"
105' - 1"
19' - 4 1/2"
5' - 1"
2' - 11"
211' - 4"
5' - 9"
DAS /
ERRCS
DAS /
ERRCS
3BD
3BD
2BD
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
3BD
1BD
1BD
3BD
2BD - 1
STUDIO
2BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
STAIR
STAIR
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
2BD
2BD
2BD
3BD
STUDIO
DAS /
ERRCS
STORAGE
STORAGE
LAUNDRY
3BD
2BD
TRASH
STORAGE
UTILITY
ELEV
ELEV
STUDIO
1BD
ELEV
MACH
FLOOR AREA LEGEND
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
3/24/2021 2:50:40 PM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/San Mateo Downtown - A.rvt
KIKU CROSSING
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 02 - HOUSING BLOCK
2021
A202
03/30/21
1/16" = 1'-0"
A202
1
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 02 - HOUSING BLOCK ENTL
PR
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED

--- page 85 ---
1
A322
________________________
1
A322
________________________
A302
1
A301
1
A301
2
A302
2
1
A321
________________________
1
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
OPEN TO 
BELOW
LAUNDRY
TRASH
3BD
2BD
1BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
3BD
3BD
STUDIO
2BD
3BD
2BD
1BD
1BD
3BD
2BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
STUDIO
2BD
STUDIO
1BD
STAIR
STAIR
JAN
UTILITY
UTILITY
JAN
UTILITY
3' - 0"
26' - 0"
109' - 0"
23' - 0"
59' - 0"
1' - 8"
3' - 0"
50' - 0"
92' - 0"
60' - 0"
3' - 0"
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
37' - 0"
15' - 0"
29' - 6"
51' - 6"
44' - 0"
2' - 0"
3' - 0"
221' - 8"
5' - 3 1/2"
1' - 9 1/2"
215' - 7"
2' - 9"
18' - 0"
208' - 0"
4' - 0"
1' - 8"
214' - 7"
3' - 7"
CIRC
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
151' - 0"
25' - 0"
4' - 0"
CIRC
CIRC
3BD
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
2BD
2BD
1BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
ELEV
ELEV
CIRC
476.1 SF
4,578.8 SF*
28,909.6 SF
564.9 SF
FLOOR AREA LEGEND
AMENITY
CIRC
UNIT
UTILITY
TOTAL NET FLOOR AREA 
34,529.4 SF
*ELEVATOR AND STAIR SHAFTS 
ABOVE GRADE EXEMPT FROM 
AREA, SEE SHEETS G002 & G512
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
6/15/2020 9:16:48 AM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 03 - HOUSING BLOCK
2019
A203
06.15.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A203
1
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 03 - HOUSING BLOCK
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
AS APPROVED

--- page 86 ---
D
WD
W
A304
2
A301
1
A302
1
A303
1
293.8 SF
4,865.3 SF*
25,641.3 SF
413.8 SF
AMENITY
CIRC
UNIT
UTILITY
TOTAL NET FLOOR AREA 
31,214.1 SF
*ELEVATOR AND STAIR SHAFTS 
ABOVE GRADE EXEMPT FROM 
AREA, SEE SHEETS G002 & G512
3' - 4"
20' - 11 1/2"
110' - 6"
21' - 4 1/2"
57' - 10"
3' - 3"
3' - 3"
40' - 8 1/2"
52' - 2 1/2"
31' - 3 1/2"
17' - 7 1/2"
31' - 10 1/2"
30' - 4"
3' - 3"
3' - 7"
210' - 6 1/2"
5' - 8 1/2"
6' - 2"
217' - 3"
6' - 5"
3' - 3"
46' - 2 1/2"
93' - 1"
56' - 7 1/2"
3' - 3"
6' - 6"
202' - 5"
21' - 0"
3' - 3"
30' - 10 1/2"
25' - 11"
21' - 9"
105' - 1"
19' - 4 1/2"
5' - 1"
2' - 11"
211' - 4"
5' - 9"
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
3BD
3BD
2BD
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
3BD
1BD
1BD
3BD
2BD - 1
STUDIO
2BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
STAIR
STAIR
IDF
IDF
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
2BD
2BD
2BD
3BD
STUDIO
IDF
STUDIO
JAN
STUDIO
LAUNDRY
3BD
2BD
1BD
TRASH
STORAGE
UTILITY
ELEV
ELEV
STUDIO
1BD
OPEN TO 
BELOW
FLOOR AREA LEGEND
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
3/24/2021 2:50:42 PM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/San Mateo Downtown - A.rvt
KIKU CROSSING
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 03 - HOUSING BLOCK
2021
A203
03/30/21
1/16" = 1'-0"
A203
1
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 03 - HOUSING BLOCK ENTL
PR
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED

--- page 87 ---
1
A322
________________________
1
A322
________________________
A302
1
A301
1
A301
2
A302
2
1
A321
________________________
1
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
OPEN TO 
BELOW
3BD
2BD
1BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
3BD
3BD
STUDIO
2BD
3BD
2BD
1BD
1BD
3BD
2BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
STUDIO
2BD
STUDIO
1BD
STAIR
STAIR
JAN
UTILITY
UTILITY
MAINT
OFFICE
JAN
UTILITY
3' - 0"
26' - 0"
109' - 0"
23' - 0"
59' - 0"
1' - 8"
3' - 0"
50' - 0"
92' - 0"
60' - 0"
3' - 0"
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
37' - 0"
15' - 0"
29' - 6"
51' - 6"
44' - 0"
2' - 0"
3' - 0"
221' - 8"
5' - 3 1/2"
1' - 9 1/2"
215' - 7"
2' - 9"
18' - 0"
208' - 0"
4' - 0"
1' - 8"
214' - 7"
3' - 7"
TRASH
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
151' - 0"
25' - 0"
4' - 0"
CIRC
CIRC
3BD
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
2BD
2BD
1BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
ELEV
ELEV
CIRC
476.1 SF
28,909.6 SF
564.9 SF
FLOOR AREA LEGEND
AMENITY
CIRC
UNIT
UTILITY
4,578.8 SF*
TOTAL NET FLOOR AREA 
34,529.4 SF
*ELEVATOR AND STAIR SHAFTS 
ABOVE GRADE EXEMPT FROM 
AREA, SEE SHEETS G002 & G512
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
6/15/2020 9:16:49 AM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 04 - HOUSING BLOCK
2019
A204
06.15.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A204
1
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 04 - HOUSING BLOCK
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
AS APPROVED

--- page 88 ---
D
WD
W
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
A304
2
A301
1
A302
1
A303
1
293.8 SF
25,639.6 SF
636.8 SF
AMENITY
CIRC
UNIT
UTILITY
4,643.5 SF*
TOTAL NET FLOOR AREA 
31,213.6 SF
*ELEVATOR AND STAIR SHAFTS 
ABOVE GRADE EXEMPT FROM 
AREA, SEE SHEETS G002 & G512
3' - 4"
20' - 11 1/2"
110' - 6"
21' - 4 1/2"
57' - 10"
3' - 3"
3' - 3"
40' - 8 1/2"
52' - 2 1/2"
31' - 3 1/2"
17' - 7 1/2"
31' - 10 1/2"
30' - 4"
3' - 3"
3' - 7"
210' - 6 1/2"
5' - 8 1/2"
6' - 2"
217' - 3"
6' - 5"
3' - 3"
46' - 2 1/2"
93' - 1"
56' - 7 1/2"
3' - 3"
6' - 6"
202' - 5"
21' - 0"
3' - 3"
30' - 10 1/2"
25' - 11"
21' - 9"
105' - 1"
19' - 4 1/2"
5' - 1"
2' - 11"
211' - 4"
5' - 9"
DAS /
ERRCS
DAS /
ERRCS
OPEN TO 
BELOW
3BD
3BD
2BD
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
3BD
1BD
1BD
3BD
2BD - 1
STUDIO
2BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
STAIR
STAIR
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
2BD
2BD
2BD
3BD
STUDIO
DAS /
ERRCS
STUDIO
STORAGE
STUDIO
LAUNDRY
3BD
2BD
1BD
TRASH
STORAGE
UTILITY
ELEV
ELEV
STUDIO
1BD
MAINT
FLOOR AREA LEGEND
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
3/24/2021 2:50:45 PM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/San Mateo Downtown - A.rvt
KIKU CROSSING
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 04 - HOUSING BLOCK
2021
A204
03/30/21
1/16" = 1'-0"
A204
1
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 04 - HOUSING BLOCK ENTL
PR
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED

--- page 89 ---
1
A322
________________________
1
A322
________________________
A302
1
A301
1
A301
2
A302
2
1
A321
________________________
1
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
WALKWAY ABOVE
OPEN TO 
BELOW
3BD
2BD
1BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
3BD
3BD
STUDIO
2BD
3BD
2BD
1BD
1BD
3BD
2BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
STUDIO
2BD
STUDIO
1BD
JAN
LAUNDRY
STAIR
STAIR
UTILITY
UTILITY
JAN
UTILITY
BRIDGE TO GARAGE
3' - 0"
26' - 0"
109' - 0"
23' - 0"
59' - 0"
1' - 8"
3' - 0"
50' - 0"
92' - 0"
60' - 0"
3' - 0"
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
37' - 0"
15' - 0"
29' - 6"
51' - 6"
44' - 0"
2' - 0"
3' - 0"
221' - 8"
5' - 3 1/2"
1' - 9 1/2"
215' - 7"
2' - 9"
18' - 0"
208' - 0"
4' - 0"
1' - 8"
214' - 7"
3' - 7"
TRASH
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
151' - 0"
25' - 0"
4' - 0"
CIRC
CIRC
3BD
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
2BD
2BD
1BD
STUDIO
CIRC
ELEV
ELEV
CIRC
476.1 SF
28,046.9 SF
564.4 SF
FLOOR AREA LEGEND
AMENITY
CIRC
UNIT
UTILITY
5,442.1 SF*
TOTAL NET FLOOR AREA 
34,529.4 SF
*ELEVATOR AND STAIR SHAFTS 
ABOVE GRADE EXEMPT FROM 
AREA, SEE SHEETS G002 & G512
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
6/15/2020 9:16:51 AM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 05 - HOUSING BLOCK
2019
A205
06.15.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A205
1
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 05 - HOUSING BLOCK
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
AS APPROVED

--- page 90 ---
WALKWAY ABOVE
BRIDGE TO GARAGE
A304
2
A301
1
A302
1
A303
1
5,491.4 SF*
817.6 SF
CIRC
UNIT
UTILITY
24,777.3 SF
TOTAL NET FLOOR AREA 
31,086.2 SF
*ELEVATOR AND STAIR SHAFTS 
ABOVE GRADE EXEMPT FROM 
AREA, SEE SHEETS G002 & G512
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
3' - 4"
20' - 11 1/2"
110' - 6"
21' - 4 1/2"
57' - 10"
3' - 3"
3' - 3"
40' - 8 1/2"
52' - 2 1/2"
31' - 3 1/2"
17' - 7 1/2"
31' - 10 1/2"
30' - 4"
3' - 3"
3' - 7"
210' - 6 1/2"
5' - 8 1/2"
6' - 2"
217' - 3"
6' - 5"
3' - 3"
46' - 2 1/2"
93' - 1"
56' - 7 1/2"
3' - 3"
6' - 6"
202' - 5"
21' - 0"
3' - 3"
30' - 10 1/2"
25' - 11"
21' - 9"
105' - 1"
19' - 4 1/2"
5' - 1"
2' - 11"
211' - 4"
5' - 9"
OPEN TO 
BELOW
3BD
3BD
2BD
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
3BD
1BD
1BD
3BD
2BD - 1
STUDIO
2BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
STAIR
STAIR
IDF
IDF
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
2BD
2BD
2BD
3BD
STUDIO
IDF
STUDIO
JAN
STUDIO
STORAGE
3BD
2BD
1BD
TRASH
STORAGE
UTILITY
ELEV
ELEV
BRIDGE
LOBBY
UTILITY
FLOOR AREA LEGEND
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
3/24/2021 2:50:48 PM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/San Mateo Downtown - A.rvt
KIKU CROSSING
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 05 - HOUSING BLOCK
2021
A205
03/30/21
1/16" = 1'-0"
A205
1
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 05 - HOUSING BLOCK ENTL
PR
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED

--- page 91 ---
1
A322
________________________
1
A322
________________________
A302
1
A301
1
A301
2
A302
2
1
A321
________________________
1
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
3BD
3BD
2BD
1BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
3BD
3BD
STUDIO
2BD
3BD
2BD
1BD
1BD
3BD
2BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
STUDIO
2BD
STUDIO
1BD
STAIR
STAIR
JAN
TRASH
MAINT
OFFICE
OPEN TO 
BELOW
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
UTILITY
UTILITY
JAN
UTILITY
3' - 0"
26' - 0"
109' - 0"
23' - 0"
59' - 0"
1' - 8"
3' - 0"
50' - 0"
92' - 0"
60' - 0"
3' - 0"
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
37' - 0"
15' - 0"
29' - 6"
51' - 6"
44' - 0"
2' - 0"
3' - 0"
221' - 8"
5' - 3 1/2"
1' - 9 1/2"
215' - 7"
2' - 9"
18' - 0"
208' - 0"
4' - 0"
1' - 8"
214' - 7"
3' - 7"
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
151' - 0"
25' - 0"
4' - 0"
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
2BD
2BD
1BD
STUDIO
ELEV
ELEV
CIRC
476.1 SF
27,999.8 SF
564.4 SF
FLOOR AREA LEGEND
AMENITY
CIRC
UNIT
UTILITY
5,442.1 SF*
TOTAL NET FLOOR AREA 
34,482.4 SF
*ELEVATOR AND STAIR SHAFTS 
ABOVE GRADE EXEMPT FROM 
AREA, SEE SHEETS G002 & G512
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
6/15/2020 9:16:52 AM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 06 - HOUSING BLOCK
2019
A206
06.15.20
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
1/16" = 1'-0"
A206
1
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 06 - HOUSING BLOCK
AS APPROVED

--- page 92 ---
D
WD
W
A304
2
A301
1
A302
1
A303
1
293.9 SF
24,744.7 SF
523.7 SF
AMENITY
CIRC
UNIT
UTILITY
5,108.9 SF*
TOTAL NET FLOOR AREA 
30,671.2 SF
*ELEVATOR AND STAIR SHAFTS 
ABOVE GRADE EXEMPT FROM 
AREA, SEE SHEETS G002 & G512
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
3' - 4"
20' - 11 1/2"
110' - 6"
21' - 4 1/2"
57' - 10"
3' - 3"
3' - 3"
40' - 8 1/2"
52' - 2 1/2"
31' - 3 1/2"
17' - 7 1/2"
31' - 10 1/2"
30' - 4"
3' - 3"
3' - 7"
210' - 6 1/2"
5' - 8 1/2"
6' - 2"
217' - 3"
6' - 5"
3' - 3"
46' - 2 1/2"
93' - 1"
56' - 7 1/2"
3' - 3"
6' - 6"
202' - 5"
21' - 0"
3' - 3"
30' - 10 1/2"
25' - 11"
21' - 9"
105' - 1"
19' - 4 1/2"
5' - 1"
2' - 11"
211' - 4"
5' - 9"
DAS/
ERRCS
DAS /
ERRCS
OPEN TO 
BELOW
3BD
3BD
2BD
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
3BD
1BD
1BD
3BD
2BD - 1
STUDIO
2BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
STAIR
STAIR
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
2BD
2BD
2BD
3BD
STUDIO
DAS /
ERRCS
STUDIO
JAN
STUDIO
LAUNDRY
3BD
2BD
1BD
TRASH
STORAGE
UTILITY
ELEV
ELEV
BRIDGE
LOBBY
UTILITY
FLOOR AREA LEGEND
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
3/24/2021 2:50:50 PM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/San Mateo Downtown - A.rvt
KIKU CROSSING
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 06 - HOUSING BLOCK
2021
A206
03/30/21
1/16" = 1'-0"
A206
1
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 06 - HOUSING BLOCK ENTL
PR
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED

--- page 93 ---
1
A322
________________________
1
A322
________________________
A302
1
A301
1
A301
2
A302
2
1
A321
________________________
1
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
3BD
3BD
2BD
1BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
3BD
3BD
STUDIO
2BD
3BD
2BD
1BD
1BD
3BD
2BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
1,412 SF
FITNESS
STAIR
STAIR
TRASH
UTILITY
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
OPEN TO 
BELOW
UTILITY
JAN
ROOF 
BELOW
JAN
UTILITY
WC
WC
OCCUPIED 
ROOF DECK
3' - 0"
26' - 0"
109' - 0"
23' - 0"
59' - 0"
1' - 8"
3' - 0"
50' - 0"
92' - 0"
60' - 0"
3' - 0"
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
37' - 0"
15' - 0"
29' - 6"
51' - 6"
44' - 0"
2' - 0"
3' - 0"
221' - 8"
5' - 3 1/2"
1' - 9 1/2"
215' - 7"
2' - 9"
18' - 0"
208' - 0"
4' - 0"
1' - 8"
214' - 7"
3' - 7"
CIRC
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
151' - 0"
25' - 0"
4' - 0"
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
2BD
2BD
1BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
ELEV
ELEV
CIRC
4,187.7 SF
24,307.8 SF
568.4 SF
FLOOR AREA LEGEND
AMENITY
CIRC
UNIT
UTILITY
3,418.6 SF*
TOTAL NET FLOOR AREA 
32,482.5 SF
*ELEVATOR AND STAIR SHAFTS 
ABOVE GRADE EXEMPT FROM 
AREA, SEE SHEETS G002 & G512
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
6/15/2020 9:16:54 AM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 07 - HOUSING BLOCK
2019
A207
06.15.20
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
1/16" = 1'-0"
A207
1
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 07 - HOUSING BLOCK
AS APPROVED

--- page 94 ---
ROOF 
BELOW
OCCUPIABLE 
ROOF DECK
A304
2
A301
1
A302
1
A303
1
2,417.8 SF
21,957.6 SF
264.3 SF
AMENITY
CIRC
UNIT
UTILITY
4,769.4 SF*
TOTAL NET FLOOR AREA 
29,409.1 SF
*ELEVATOR AND STAIR SHAFTS 
ABOVE GRADE EXEMPT FROM 
AREA, SEE SHEETS G002 & G512
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
3' - 4"
20' - 11 1/2"
110' - 6"
21' - 4 1/2"
57' - 10"
3' - 3"
3' - 3"
40' - 8 1/2"
52' - 2 1/2"
31' - 3 1/2"
17' - 7 1/2"
31' - 10 1/2"
30' - 4"
3' - 3"
3' - 7"
210' - 6 1/2"
5' - 8 1/2"
6' - 2"
217' - 3"
6' - 5"
3' - 3"
46' - 2 1/2"
93' - 1"
56' - 7 1/2"
3' - 3"
6' - 6"
202' - 5"
21' - 0"
3' - 3"
30' - 10 1/2"
25' - 11"
21' - 9"
105' - 1"
19' - 4 1/2"
5' - 1"
2' - 11"
211' - 4"
5' - 9"
OPEN TO 
BELOW
A601
3
3BD
3BD
2BD
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
3BD
1BD
1BD
3BD
2BD - 1
STUDIO
2BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
STAIR
STAIR
IDF
IDF
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
2BD
2BD
2BD
3BD
STUDIO
IDF
TRASH
ELEV
ELEV
STUDIO
1BD
FLOOR AREA LEGEND
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
3/24/2021 2:50:53 PM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/San Mateo Downtown - A.rvt
KIKU CROSSING
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 07 - HOUSING BLOCK
2021
A207
03/30/21
1/16" = 1'-0"
A207
1
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 07 - HOUSING BLOCK ENTL
PR
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
OCCUPIABLE
ROOF DECK
AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED

--- page 95 ---
1
A322
________________________
1
A322
________________________
A302
1
A301
1
A301
2
A302
2
1
A321
________________________
1
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
STAIR PENTHOUSE
ELEVATOR OVERRUN
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
SOLAR READY AREA
SOLAR READY AREA
PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE ROOF
ELEVATOR OVERRUN
AREA = 1,320 SF 
AREA =2,545 SF 
TOTAL SOLAR READY AREA =  
29,795 SF OF ROOF X 15% 
= 4,470 SF  MIN
PROVIDED
= 12,850 SF
OPEN TO 
BELOW
SOLAR READY AREA
AREA =3,355 SF 
SOLAR READY AREA
AREA =5,630 SF 
ROOF DECK BELOW
TRELLIS
3' - 0"
26' - 0"
109' - 0"
23' - 0"
59' - 0"
1' - 8"
4' - 7"
25' - 0"
4' - 0"
3' - 0"
50' - 0"
92' - 0"
63' - 0"
4' - 7"
15' - 0"
29' - 6"
51' - 6"
46' - 0"
3' - 0"
221' - 8"
5' - 3"
1' - 9 1/2"
215' - 7"
2' - 9"
18' - 0"
208' - 0"
4' - 0"
1' - 8"
214' - 7"
3' - 7"
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
6/15/2020 9:16:55 AM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
ROOF PLAN - HOUSING BLOCK
2019
A208
06.15.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A208
1
ROOF PLAN - HOUSING BLOCK
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
AS APPROVED

--- page 96 ---
STAIR PENTHOUSE
ELEVATOR OVERRUN
PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE ROOF
ELEVATOR OVERRUN
TOTAL SOLAR READY AREA =  
28,530 SF OF ROOF X 15% 
= 4,280 SF  MIN
PROVIDED
= 4,805 SF
SOLAR READY AREA
350 SF
ROOF DECK BELOW
TRELLIS
A304
2
A301
1
A302
1
A303
1
CORNICES
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
3' - 4"
20' - 11 1/2"
110' - 6"
21' - 4 1/2"
57' - 10"
3' - 3"
3' - 3"
40' - 8 1/2"
52' - 2 1/2"
31' - 3 1/2"
17' - 7 1/2"
31' - 10 1/2"
30' - 4"
3' - 3"
3' - 7"
210' - 6 1/2"
5' - 8 1/2"
6' - 2"
217' - 3"
6' - 5"
3' - 3"
46' - 2 1/2"
93' - 1"
56' - 7 1/2"
3' - 3"
6' - 6"
202' - 5"
21' - 0"
3' - 3"
30' - 10 1/2"
25' - 11"
21' - 9"
105' - 1"
19' - 4 1/2"
5' - 1"
2' - 11"
211' - 4"
5' - 9"
OPEN TO 
BELOW
SOLAR 
READY 
AREA
485 SF
SOLAR 
READY 
AREA
570 SF
SOLAR READY AREA
400 SF
SOLAR READY AREA
905 SF
SOLAR READY AREA
860 SF
A601
3
ROOF EQUIPMENT TO BE 
SCREENED PER CONDITION 
OF APPROVAL 28
SOLAR READY 
AREA
185 SF
SOLAR READY 
AREA
170 SF
SOLAR READY AREA
530 SF
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
3/24/2021 2:50:57 PM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/San Mateo Downtown - A.rvt
KIKU CROSSING
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
ROOF PLAN - HOUSING BLOCK
2021
A208
03/30/21
1/16" = 1'-0"
A208
1
ROOF PLAN - HOUSING BLOCK ENTL
PR
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED

--- page 97 ---
LEVEL 01b (121.5')
0' - 6"
LEVEL 01b (121.5')
0' - 6"
LEVEL 02
12' - 2"
LEVEL 03
22' - 2"
LEVEL 04
32' - 2"
LEVEL 05
42' - 2"
LEVEL 06
52' - 2"
TO PLATE
71' - 2"
TO PLATE
71' - 2"
LEVEL 07
62' - 2"
PL
PL
2' - 11"
70' - 8"
3' - 9"
70' - 8"
5' - 11"
217' - 9"
6' - 4"
ADJACENT GRADE
118.58'
ADJACENT GRADE
117.75'
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
73' - 7" HT TO TO PLATE
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
74' - 5" HT TO TO PLATE
E 5TH AVE
E 4TH AVE
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
83' - 3"HT TO TO PARAPET
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
82' - 5"HT TO TO PARAPET
TO PARAPET
81' - 6"
TO PARAPET
81 - 6"
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 10 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 11" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
10' - 7" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
3/30/2021 12:05:52 PM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/San Mateo Downtown - A.rvt
KIKU CROSSING
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS - NORTH
2021
A301
03/30/21
2
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
1
1/16" = 1'-0"
A301
2
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - NORTH - HOUSING BLOCK - STREET
1
ENTITLEMENT
CURRENT
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 02
13' - 8"
LEVEL 03
23' - 8"
LEVEL 04
33' - 8"
LEVEL 05
43' - 8"
LEVEL 06
53' - 8"
1
A322
________________________
1
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
PL
PL
E 5TH AVE
E 4TH AVE
10
2' - 11"
70' - 8"
ADJACENT GRADE
117.75'
ADJACENT GRADE
118.58'
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
LEVEL 07
63' - 8"
1
3
2
3
2
1
2
26
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
73' - 7" HT TO PLATE
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
74' - 5" HT TO PLATE
3' - 9"
70' - 8"
9
4
1
12
2
1/16" = 1'-0"
A301
2
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - NORTH - HOUSING BLOCK - STREET
1
ENTITLEMENT
CURRENT
63' - 8"
23' - 8"
43' - 8"
53' - 8"
33' - 8"
72' - 8"
AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED
13' - 8"
2' - 0"
72' - 8"
2' - 0"
AS APPROVED
TO PARAPET
78' - 5"
8' - 10 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
10' - 7" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
TO PARAPET
78' - 5"
8' - 11' FF TO CLG HEIGHT
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
79' - 4" HT TO TO PARAPET
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
80' - 2" HT TO TO PARAPET

--- page 98 ---
LEVEL 01b (121.5')
0' - 6"
LEVEL 01b (121.5')
0' - 6"
LEVEL 02
12' - 2"
LEVEL 03
22' - 2"
LEVEL 04
32' - 2"
LEVEL 05
42' - 2"
LEVEL 06
52' - 2"
TO PLATE
71' - 2"
TO PLATE
71' - 2"
LEVEL 07
62' - 2"
PL
PL
E 5TH AVE
E 4TH AVE
5' - 8"
202' - 6"
21' - 10"
ADJACENT GRADE
122.5'
ADJACENT GRADE
122.33'
10"
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
69' - 10" HT TO TO PLATE
1' - 0"
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
69' - 8" HT TO TO PLATE
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
78' - 6"HT TO TO PARAPET
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 10 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 11" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
10' - 7" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
TO PARAPET
81' - 6"
TO PARAPET
81' - 6"
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
78' - 8"HT TO TO PARAPET
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
3/30/2021 12:06:21 PM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/San Mateo Downtown - A.rvt
KIKU CROSSING
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS - SOUTH
2021
A303
03/30/21
2
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
1
1/16" = 1'-0"
A302
2
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - SOUTH - HOUSING BLOCK - STREET
1
A303
ENTITLEMENT
CURRENT
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 02
13' - 8"
LEVEL 03
23' - 8"
LEVEL 04
33' - 8"
LEVEL 05
43' - 8"
LEVEL 06
53' - 8"
1
A322
________________________
1
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
PL
PL
E 4TH AVE
E 5TH AVE
10
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
69' - 8" HT TO PLATE
1' - 0"
ADJACENT GRADE
122.5'
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
LEVEL 07
63' - 8"
9
1
3
2
12
2
12
ADJACENT GRADE
122.33'
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
69' - 10" HT TO PLATE
0' - 10"
4
2
1/16" = 1'-0"
A302
2
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - SOUTH - HOUSING BLOCK - STREET
1
A303
ENTITLEMENT
CURRENT
63' - 8"
23' - 8"
43' - 8"
53' - 8"
33' - 8"
72' - 8"
72' - 8"
2' - 0"
13' - 8"
2' - 0"
AS APPROVED
TO PARAPET
78' - 5"
8' - 10 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
10' - 7" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
TO PARAPET
78' - 5"
8' - 11' FF TO CLG HEIGHT
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
75' - 5" HT TO TO PARAPET
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
75' - 7" HT TO TO PARAPET
8' - 11' FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED

--- page 99 ---
LEVEL 01b (121.5')
0' - 6"
LEVEL 01b (121.5')
0' - 6"
LEVEL 02
12' - 2"
LEVEL 03
22' - 2"
LEVEL 04
32' - 2"
LEVEL 05
42' - 2"
LEVEL 06
52' - 2"
TO PLATE
71' - 2"
TO PLATE
71' - 2"
LEVEL 07
62' - 2"
PL
PL
S CLAREMONT ST
S RAILROAD AVE
ADJACENT GRADE
122.5'
ADJACENT GRADE
117.75'
1' - 0"
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
69' - 8" HT TO TO PLATE
5' - 10"
211' - 8"
3' - 0"
3' - 9"
70' - 8"
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
74' - 5" HT TO TO PLATE
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
78' - 6"HT TO TO PARAPET
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
83' - 3"HT TO TO PARAPET
TO PARAPET
81' - 6"
TO PARAPET
81' - 6"
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 10 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 11" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
10' - 7" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
3/30/2021 12:06:28 PM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/San Mateo Downtown - A.rvt
KIKU CROSSING
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS - EAST
2021
A304
03/30/21
1
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
1/16" = 1'-0"
A302
1
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - EAST - HOUSING BLOCK - STREET
A304
ENTITLEMENT
CURRENT
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 02
13' - 8"
LEVEL 03
23' - 8"
LEVEL 04
33' - 8"
LEVEL 05
43' - 8"
LEVEL 06
53' - 8"
1
A321
________________________
1
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
PL
PL
S RAILROAD AVE
S CLAREMONT ST
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
74' - 5" HT TO PLATE
ADJACENT GRADE
122.5'
ADJACENT GRADE
117.75'
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
LEVEL 07
63' - 8"
3
1
2
9
2
3
1
10
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
69' - 8" HT TO PLATE
1' - 0"
70' - 8"
3' - 9"
2
4
2
12
1/16" = 1'-0"
A302
1
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - EAST - HOUSING BLOCK - STREET
A304
ENTITLEMENT
CURRENT
63' - 8"
23' - 8"
43' - 8"
53' - 8"
33' - 8"
72' - 8"
72' - 8"
AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED
2' - 0"
2' - 0"
13' - 8"
AS APPROVED
TO PARAPET
78' - 5"
TO PARAPET
78' - 5"
8' - 10 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
10' - 7" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
8' - 11' FF TO CLG HEIGHT
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
80' - 2" HT TO TO PARAPET
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
75' - 5" HT TO TO PARAPET
8' - 11' FF TO CLG HEIGHT
10' - 7" FF TO CLG HEIGHT

--- page 100 ---
GROUND LEVEL
1.50'
SECOND LEVEL
12.83'
THIRD LEVEL
24.17'
FOURTH LEVEL
35.50'
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
FIFTH (ROOF) LEVEL
46.83'
2
A3.12
3
A3.12
1
A3.12
A3.23
1
A3.24
1
A3.25
1
21
26
22
22
22
26
21
20
21
24
25
30
19
24
21
C-1
MTL-2
MTL-2
MTL-2
PL
PL
SC-B1
SC-B1
SC-B1
SC-B2
SC-B3
SC-B3
SC-B3
SC-B3
SC-B3
SC-B3
SC-B3
SC-B3
SC-B2
SC-B1
SC-B1
SC-B1
SC-B4
SC-B4
SC-B4
MTL-3
GROUND LEVEL
1.50'
SECOND LEVEL
12.83'
1
A3.11
THIRD LEVEL
24.17'
FOURTH LEVEL
35.50'
A
B
C
FIFTH (ROOF) LEVEL
46.83'
2
A3.11
A.3
A.6
B.3
B.6
SC-B5
SC-B6
SC-B6
SC-B6
SC-B6
SC-B7
MTL-1
C-1
C-2
21
21
31
25
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
10' - 0"
11' - 4"
11' - 4"
11' - 4"
11' - 4"
55' - 4"
PL
PL
UTILITY EASEMENT
SHEET NOTE
1. FLOOR ELEVATIONS SHOWN ARE TO THE TOP OF STRUCTURAL SLAB
UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
2. COORDINATE STRUCTURAL WITH SPRINKLER DESIGN AND LAYOUT.
PROVIDE SLEEVE LOCATION(S) AS NECESSARY.
/
13
A7.01
/
14
A7.01
/
3
A7.01
/
6
A7.01
/
1
A7.01
/
13
A10.20
/
11
A4.30
/
15
A7.01
/
9
A7.01
/
10
A4.30
/
1
A5.01
A4.20
A4.21
/
12
A7.01
A4.21
/
5
A7.01
/
2
A4.30
/
1
A7.02
/
2
A7.02
IPD, Inc.
@
Oakland
Irvine
Los Angeles
560 - 14th Street Suite 300
 Oakland, CA 94612
Telephone 510 473 0300 
    Fax 510 473 0310
Architecture / Engineering / Consulting
Drawing No.
Drawing Title:
Date
Project No.
Scale
Checked By
Drawn By
Date
Revision
Design Professional's electronic seal or signature is
effective only as to that version of this document as
originally published by Design Professional. Design
Professional is not responsible for any subsequent
modification, corruption or unauthorize use of such
docment. To verify the validity or applicability of the seal or
signature, contact Design Professional.
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
11/20/2020 10:16:48
AM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/Downtown San Mateo Parking Structure_Arch.rvt
As indicated
A3.02
DOWNTOWN
SAN MATEO
PARKING
STRUCUTRE
400 EAST 5TH AVE,
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
100% SD
A3.02
BUILDING
ELEVATIONS
LD
11/20/20
20357
RNN/DT
SCALE:
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 SOUTH ELEVATION
SCALE:
1/16" = 1'-0"
2 EAST ELEVATION
MATERIAL LEGEND
MATERIAL KEY
DESCRIPTION
C-1
EXPOSED CONCRETE
C-2
SPLIT-FACE INTEGRAL COLOR CMU, THREE COLORS, COLOR BE SELECT BY ARCHITECT
C-3
PAINTED CEMENT PLASTER, COLOR TO BE SELECT BY ARCHITECT
MTL-1
MESH SCREEN
MTL-2
VENTILATED SCREEN PANEL
MTL-3
METAL SCREEN
KEYNOTE LEGEND
38
BLUE PHONE
39
ELEVATOR TWO WAY COMMUNICATON SYSTEM, SEE DETAIL
40
PAINTED GUARDRAIL ON CRASHWALL, SEE DETAIL
41
ELEVATOR LOBBY ROOF
42
ELASTOMERIC COATING OVER ROOM BELOW - EXTEND 12" PASS WALLS OF ROOMS BELOW AND RETURN
UP 6" AT WALLS AND COLUMNS.
43
ROOF AND OVERFLOW DRAIN, SEE DETAIL                    AND
44
ROOF SEISMIC JOINT
45
4" CONCRETE PAD, COORDINATION SIZE WITH EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS
KEYNOTE LEGEND
01
CONCRETE CRASH BARRIER WALL,
02
CONCRETE BEAM, SEE STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS
03
CONCRETE COLUMN, SEE STRUCTURAL
04
CONCRETE CORBEL
05
CONCRETE UPTURN BEAM, SEE STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS
06
FOUNDATION, SEE STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS
07
ELEVATOR PIT SLAB, SSD
08
ELEVATOR PIT WALL, SSD
09
ELEVATOR SUMP PIT, SEE DETAIL
10
RETANING WALL UNDER RAMP, SSD
11
FLOOR DRAIN, COORDINATE WITH PLUMBING DRAWING AND SEE DETAIL
12
TRENCH DRAIN, SEE DETAIL
13
SCUPPER DRAIN AND OVERFLOW DRAIN SEE DETAIL
14
FIRE EXTINGUISHER CABINET, TYPICAL SEE DETAIL                    FOR TYPICAL LEVEL AND DETAIL
FOR ROOF LEVEL
15
BARRIER BEAM, SEE DETAIL
16
VEHICULAR CABLE BARRIER RAIL, TYPICAL. SEE DETAIL
17
PAINTED METAL STAIR AND RAILING SYSTEM, SEE SHEET                AND
18
PAINTED METAL GUARDRAIL, SEE DETAILS ON SHEET
19
METAL CANOPY & ADDRESS SIGNAGE
20
PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE
21
PV PANEL AT ROOF
22
POTENTIAL PUBLIC ART LOCATION
23
SEISMIC JOINT COVER AT ELEVATOR
24
VERTICAL FACADE SCREENING ELEMENT
25
MESH SECURITY FENCE
26
VENTILATED FACADE SCREEN PANEL(S)
27
ENTRANCE SIGNAGE - TBD AT A LATER DATE
28
6" BOLLARD, TYPICAL, SEE DETAIL
29
TRUNCATED DOME TILE, SEE DETAIL
30
WATERPROOFING
31
CONTINUOUS CMU GARAGE WALL, SSD FOR ADDTIONAL INFO
32
SEURITY FENCE
33
ELEVATOR PIT LADDER, SEE DETAIL
34
PAINTED METAL GATE, SEE DETAIL
35
PARKING SECURITY GATE FOR PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL ACCESS
36
PARKING PAYMENT MACHINE
37
BOLT THROUGH BOLLARD, SEE DETAIL
AS APPROVED

--- page 101 ---
GROUND LEVEL
122.00'
SECOND LEVEL
133.33'
THIRD LEVEL
144.67'
FOURTH LEVEL
156.00'
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
FIFTH (ROOF) LEVEL
167.33'
2
A3.12
3
A3.12
1
A3.12
21
26
21
21
24
25
30
19
24
21
C-1
MTL-2
3
A6.02
4
A6.02
3
A6.03
PL
PL
SC-B1
SC-B1
SC-B1
SC-B2
SC-B3
SC-B3
SC-B3
SC-B3
SC-B3
SC-B3
SC-B3
SC-B3
SC-B2
SC-B1
SC-B1
SC-B1
SC-B4
SC-B4
SC-B4
MTL-3
26
GROUND LEVEL
122.00'
SECOND LEVEL
133.33'
1
A3.11
THIRD LEVEL
144.67'
FOURTH LEVEL
156.00'
A
B
C
FIFTH (ROOF) LEVEL
167.33'
2
A3.11
A.3
A.6
B.3
B.6
SC-B5
SC-B6
SC-B6
SC-B6
SC-B6
SC-B7
MTL-1
C-1
C-2
21
21
31
25
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
OPEN
10' - 0"
11' - 4"
11' - 4"
11' - 4"
11' - 4"
55' - 4"
PL
PL
UTILITY EASEMENT
SHEET NOTE
1. FLOOR ELEVATIONS SHOWN ARE TO THE TOP OF STRUCTURAL SLAB
UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
2. COORDINATE STRUCTURAL WITH SPRINKLER DESIGN AND LAYOUT.
PROVIDE SLEEVE LOCATION(S) AS NECESSARY.
/
13
A7.01
/
14
A7.01
/
3
A7.01
/
6
A7.01
/
1
A7.01
/
13
A10.20
/
11
A4.30
/
15
A7.01
/
9
A7.01
/
1
A5.01
A4.20
A4.21
/
12
A7.01
A4.21
/
5
A7.01
/
2
A4.30
/
1
A7.02
/
2
A7.02
IPD, Inc.
@
Oakland
Irvine
Los Angeles
560 - 14th Street Suite 300
 Oakland, CA 94612
Telephone 510 473 0300 
    Fax 510 473 0310
Architecture / Engineering / Consulting
Drawing No.
Drawing Title:
Date
Project No.
Scale
Checked By
Drawn By
Date
Revision
Design Professional's electronic seal or signature is
effective only as to that version of this document as
originally published by Design Professional. Design
Professional is not responsible for any subsequent
modification, corruption or unauthorize use of such
docment. To verify the validity or applicability of the seal or
signature, contact Design Professional.
NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
4/5/2021 2:04:11 PM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/Downtown San Mateo Parking Structure_Arch.rvt
As indicated
A3.02
FIFTH AVE.
PARKING
GARAGE
400 EAST 5TH AVE,
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
DD PROGRESS SET
A3.02
BUILDING
ELEVATIONS
LD
03/01/21
20357
RNN/DT
SCALE:
1/16" = 1'-0"
1 SOUTH ELEVATION
SCALE:
1/16" = 1'-0"
2 EAST ELEVATION
MATERIAL LEGEND
MATERIAL KEY
DESCRIPTION
C-1
EXPOSED CONCRETE
C-2
SPLIT-FACE INTEGRAL COLOR CMU, TWO COLORS, COLOR BE SELECT BY ARCHITECT
C-3
PAINTED CEMENT PLASTER, COLOR TO BE SELECT BY ARCHITECT
MTL-1
MESH SCREEN
MTL-2
VENTILATED SCREEN PANEL
MTL-3
METAL SCREEN
KEYNOTE LEGEND
38
KNOX BOX
39
ELEVATOR TWO WAY COMMUNICATON SYSTEM, SEE DETAIL
40
PAINTED GUARDRAIL ON CRASHWALL, SEE DETAIL
41
CAR COUNTING SYSMTE DYNAMIC SIGNAGE
42
ELASTOMERIC COATING OVER ROOM BELOW - EXTEND 12" PASS WALLS OF ROOMS BELOW AND RETURN
UP 6" AT WALLS AND COLUMNS.
43
ROOF AND OVERFLOW DRAIN, SEE DETAIL                    AND
44
ROOF SEISMIC JOINT
45
4" CONCRETE PAD, COORDINATION SIZE WITH EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS
46
ELEVATOR HOISTWAY BEAM
KEYNOTE LEGEND
01
CONCRETE CRASH BARRIER WALL,
02
CONCRETE BEAM, SEE STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS
03
CONCRETE COLUMN, SEE STRUCTURAL
04
CONCRETE CORBEL
05
CONCRETE UPTURN BEAM, SEE STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS
06
FOUNDATION, SEE STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS
07
ELEVATOR PIT SLAB, SSD
08
ELEVATOR PIT WALL, SSD
09
ELEVATOR LOBBY CANOPY ROOF,
10
RETANING WALL UNDER RAMP, SSD
11
FLOOR DRAIN, COORDINATE WITH PLUMBING DRAWING AND SEE DETAIL
12
TRENCH DRAIN, SEE DETAIL
13
SCUPPER DRAIN AND OVERFLOW DRAIN SEE DETAIL
14
FIRE EXTINGUISHER CABINET, TYPICAL SEE DETAIL                    FOR TYPICAL LEVEL AND DETAIL
FOR ROOF LEVEL
15
BARRIER BEAM, SEE DETAIL
16
VEHICULAR CABLE BARRIER RAIL, TYPICAL. SEE DETAIL
17
PAINTED METAL STAIR AND RAILING SYSTEM, SEE SHEET                AND
18
PAINTED METAL GUARDRAIL, SEE DETAILS ON SHEET
19
METAL CANOPY & ADDRESS SIGNAGE
20
PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE
21
ROOF CANOPY AT ROOF
22
ELECTRICAL CHARGING STATION
23
SEISMIC JOINT COVER AT ELEVATOR
24
VERTICAL FACADE SCREENING ELEMENT
25
MESH SECURITY FENCE
26
VENTILATED FACADE SCREEN PANEL(S) WITH POTENTIAL PUBLIC ART
27
ENTRANCE SIGNAGE - TBD AT A LATER DATE
28
6" BOLLARD, TYPICAL, SEE DETAIL
29
TRUNCATED DOME TILE, SEE DETAIL
30
WATERPROOFING
31
CONTINUOUS CMU GARAGE WALL, SSD FOR ADDTIONAL INFO
32
SEURITY FENCE
33
ELEVATOR PIT LADDER, SEE DETAIL
34
PAINTED METAL GATE, SEE DETAIL
35
PARKING SECURITY GATE FOR PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL ACCESS
36
PARKING PAYMENT MACHINE
37
BOLT THROUGH BOLLARD, SEE DETAIL
AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED

--- page 102 ---
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
6/15/2020 9:17:26 AM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
MATERIAL BOARD
2019
A334
06.15.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A334
1
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - WEST - EXTERIOR MATERIALS
MATERIALS
CEMENT PLASTER
FIBER CEMENDT 
SIDING
BRICK
WOOD RAILING
FIBER CEMENT PANEL
AS APPROVED

--- page 103 ---
COPYRIGHT© 2019 BAR architects

CEMENT PLASTER FIBER CEMENDT ;—— BRICK FIBER CEMENT PANEL WOOD RAILING

SIDING

TO PARAPET TO PARAPET
81-6"

81'-6"

TOPLATE _ | = y
2-8 | |

ll

|

7 7 TOPLATE

‘ , . 72-8"

| |_| TT] Saar 22 o> 8-10 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
LEVEL O7
63-8"

\ } peed } ) 4 | 8'- 81/2" FFTO CLG HEIGHT
| - _ ~ LEVELO6

53-8"

8'-81/2" FFTO CLG HEIGHT
LEVEL O5
43-8"

N | 8'-81/2" FFTO CLG HEIGHT
LEVEL 04

82' - 5"HT TO TO PARAPET
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
73' - 7" HT TO TO PLATE

FROM ADJACENT GRADE
it)
79° - 6"HT TO TO PARAPET

FROM ADJACENT GRADE

33-8"
A - 8'-8 1/2" FF TO CLG HEIGHT
LEVEL 03

69' - 11 1/2’
70' - 8" HT TO TO PLATE
FROM ADJACENT GRADE

23'-8
8-11" FFTO CLG HEIGHT
__ LEVEL 02

13-8

10°-7" FFTO CLG HEIGHT

= LEVEL O1b (121.8) , oth | ADJACENT GRADE pS
Bye 4 mae or —_F

\ \

a’ 2-0) \ ; oS
e Tar a S CLAREMONT ST S RAILROAD AVE Senne
C) EXTERIOR ELEVATION - WEST - EXTERIOR MATERIALS

1/16" = 1'-0"

AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED

DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES MATERIAL BOAR
ee eet) oc) BAR since OE 0334 |



--- page 104 ---
SOUTH CLAREMONT STREET
EAST 4TH AVENUE
EAST 5TH AVENUE
SOUTH RAILROAD AVENUE
12,300 SF
LEVEL 01 - RESIDENTIAL
21,327 SF
LEVEL 01 - RESIDENTIAL
OPEN SPACE LEGEND
COMMON OPEN SPACE
PRIVATE OPEN SPACE
LEVEL 01 - RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
3
1
4
2
BRIDGE TO GARAGE
904 SF
COMMON OPEN SPACE
3,459 SF
COMMON OPEN SPACE
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
6/15/2020 9:17:38 AM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
OPEN SPACE DIAGRAM
2019
A511
06.15.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A511
1
LEVEL 01 - OPEN SPACE DIAGRAM
OPEN SPACE TABULATION
TOTAL NUMBER OF UNITS: 225
UNITS W/ PRIVATE OPEN SPACE (80sf MIN) = 4
UNITS W/O QUALIFIED OPEN SPACE = 225 - 4 = 221
REQUIRED COMMON OPEN SPACE: 221 UNITS x (80sf x 1.5) = 26,520 sf
TOTAL COMMON OPEN SPACE PROVIDED = 21,323 SF < 26,520 sf
OPEN SPACE AREAS
LEVEL
NAME
AREA
LEVEL 05
COMMON OPEN SPACE
904 SF
LEVEL 07
COMMON OPEN SPACE
3,459 SF
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
COMMON OPEN SPACE
16,641 SF
3
21,004 SF
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
PRIVATE OPEN SPACE
80 SF
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
PRIVATE OPEN SPACE
80 SF
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
PRIVATE OPEN SPACE
80 SF
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
PRIVATE OPEN SPACE
80 SF
4
320 SF
Grand total: 7
21,323 SF
1/16" = 1'-0"
A511
2
LEVEL 05 - OPEN SPACE DIAGRAM
1/16" = 1'-0"
A511
3
LEVEL 07 - OPEN SPACE DIAGRAM
AS APPROVED

--- page 105 ---
UP
UP
2,276 SF
COMMON OPEN SPACE
BRIDGE TO GARAGE
199 SF
COMMON OPEN SPACE
SOUTH CLAREMONT STREET
EAST 4TH AVENUE
EAST 5TH AVENUE
SOUTH RAILROAD AVENUE
11,499 SF
LEVEL 01 - RESIDENTIAL
19,650 SF
LEVEL 01 - RESIDENTIAL
COMMON OPEN SPACE
PRIVATE OPEN SPACE
LEVEL 01 - RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
3
1
4
2
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
3/24/2021 1:03:12 PM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/San Mateo Downtown - A.rvt
KIKU CROSSING
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
OPEN SPACE DIAGRAM
2021
A511
03/30/21
1/16" = 1'-0"
A511
1
LEVEL 07 - OPEN SPACE DIAGRAM
1/16" = 1'-0"
A511
2
LEVEL 05 - OPEN SPACE DIAGRAM
1/16" = 1'-0"
A511
3
LEVEL 01 - OPEN SPACE DIAGRAM
OPEN SPACE TABULATION
TOTAL NUMBER OF UNITS: 225
UNITS W/ PRIVATE OPEN SPACE (80sf MIN) = 4
UNITS W/O QUALIFIED OPEN SPACE = 225 - 4 = 221
REQUIRED COMMON OPEN SPACE: 221 UNITS x (80sf x 1.5) = 26,520 sf
TOTAL COMMON OPEN SPACE PROVIDED = 21,914 SF < 26,520 sf
OPEN SPACE AREAS
LEVEL
NAME
AREA
LEVEL 05
COMMON OPEN SPACE
199 SF
LEVEL 07
COMMON OPEN SPACE
2,276 SF
LEVEL 01b (121.5')
COMMON OPEN SPACE
19,086 SF
3
21,561 SF
LEVEL 01b (121.5')
PRIVATE OPEN SPACE
88 SF
LEVEL 01b (121.5')
PRIVATE OPEN SPACE
88 SF
LEVEL 01b (121.5')
PRIVATE OPEN SPACE
88 SF
LEVEL 01b (121.5')
PRIVATE OPEN SPACE
88 SF
4
353 SF
TOTAL: 7
21,914 SF
AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED

--- page 106 ---
3' - 2"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
A
EQ
A
EQ
A
EQ
A
EQ
A
EQ
A
EQ
A
EQ
24' - 5"
CL
CL
3' - 10"
19' - 11"
8"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
B
EQ
B
EQ
B
EQ
B
EQ
B
EQ
B
EQ
B
EQ
B
EQ
B
EQ
B
EQ
B
EQ
B
EQ
B
EQ
45' - 0"
CL
CL
3' - 10"
40' - 5"
9"
A601
3
ROOF
73' - 0"
TO PLATE
71' - 2"
TYP
8"
ALIGN
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
EQ
EQ
EQ
EQ
EQ
EQ
EQ
CL
CL
TYP
8"
10"
3"
4"
4"
3"
2'-9"
2"
5"
3"
5"
3"
5"
3"
5"
2"
TO ROOF
TO PLATE
L-ANGLES
TAPERED DOUBLE L-ANGLES SUPPORTS
4"
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
3/24/2021 12:59:08 PM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/San Mateo Downtown - A.rvt
KIKU CROSSING
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
EXTERIOR ELEMENTS - CORNICE
2021
A601
03/30/21
1/4" = 1'-0"
A601
5
CORNICE - PLAN VIEW (NW Corner)
A601
1
CORNICE - AXON VIEW (NW Corner)
1/4" = 1'-0"
A601
3
CORNICE - ENLARGED ELEVATION (NW Corner)
1" = 1'-0"
A601
4
TYP CORNICE - ENLARGED SECTION
A601
2
CORNICE - AXON VIEW (NW Corner)
AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED

--- page 107 ---
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
3/24/2021 12:59:18 PM
BIM 360://Downtown San Mateo/San Mateo Downtown - A.rvt
KIKU CROSSING
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
EXTERIOR ELEMENTS - CORNICE
2021
A602
03/30/21
A602
2
CORNICE - AXON VIEW (NW Corner) - STREET
A602
1
CORNICE - AXON VIEW (NW Corner) - STREET
A602
4
CORNICE - AXON VIEW (NW Corner) - ABOVE
A602
3
CORNICE - AXON VIEW (NW Corner) - ABOVE
AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED

--- page 108 ---
April 6, 2021
Mr. Phillip Brennan, Associate Planner
Department of Community Development
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403-1388
RE:		
Kiku Crossings Design Modifications
Dear Phillip:
I reviewed the proposed changes to the residential floor plans and elevations. - see comparison illustrations below.
Overall, the changes appear minor in regards to the visual qualities of the project. The important changes noted on the 
illustrations include:
•	 Increased landscaped setbacks along all sides of the building.
•	 An improved elevator lobby which will visually open the interior corridor to views of the courtyard.
•	 Removal of the Fitness Room, and the reconfiguring of the floor plans below that change..
•	 Modifications to the Community Room.
•	 Increased open space area within the courtyard.
•	 Minor modifications to the window arrangements.
•	 Minor modifications to the elevations at some building corners.
•	 Added design detail for the building cornice.
ARCHITECTURE	
PLANNING	
URBAN DESIGN

--- page 109 ---
Kiku Crossings
Design Modifications
Design Review Comments
April 6, 2021	
  Page 2

--- page 110 ---
Kiku Crossings
Design Modifications
Design Review Comments
April 6, 2021	
  Page 3

--- page 111 ---
Kiku Crossings
Design Modifications
Design Review Comments
April 6, 2021	
  Page 4

--- page 112 ---
Since my initial review of these changes, a couple of new issues have emerged that need some review comments.
1.	 Building Cornice
	
Earlier design submittals did not include a cornice element, but the last drawings that I reviewed prior to the Plan-
ning Commission review added them to the building corners - see illustrations below.
	
In their review of the project, the Planning Commission directed staff to include their preference for a more shaped 
and detailed cornice in the staff report going to the City Council, and that staff come up with a possible condition 
of approval that could be imposed at the building permit phase, as reviewed and approved by the Zoning Adminis-
trator. 
	
The applicant has responded to staff with a preferred design - shown on the following page. Their explanation for 
their preferred design includes the following narrative:
	
Applicant’s design description:
	
The cornice materiality changed to a more robust and contemporary metal frame that compliments the roof 
trellis and resonates with other building components, namely Juliet balconies and lower level canopies. The 
dark color of the cornice contributes to its prominence when viewed from street level.
	
The cornice design allows for exterior building maintenance (aka window washing) lines from the roof to 
drop through it, so that window washing equipment can achieve the OHSA required 10 ft clearance be-
tween the window washing equipment and the high voltage overhead utility lines on 4th Avenue.  The depth 
of the cornice confers to the City requirement that the cornices be within the property line.
Kiku Crossings
Design Modifications
Design Review Comments
April 6, 2021	
  Page 5

--- page 113 ---
Cornice Details
APPLICANT’S CURRENT PROPOSED CORNICE
Kiku Crossings
Design Modifications
Design Review Comments
April 6, 2021	
  Page 6

--- page 114 ---
There are a number of ways that the cornice could be given a more “robust” appearance. I looked at other visual ex-
amples in my files, and developed three alternative approaches which might be explored by staff and the applicant. 
They are illustrated below along with relevant photo examples.
	
APPROACH A
	
Add beam element at the front of the cornice to give the cornice a stronger, more prominent horizontal felling
Kiku Crossings
Design Modifications
Design Review Comments
April 6, 2021	
  Page 7

--- page 115 ---
APPROACH B
	
	Add a continuous fronting member with curve molding, and lower cross angles to a location more visible from 
ground level. 	
Kiku Crossings
Design Modifications
Design Review Comments
April 6, 2021	
  Page 8

--- page 116 ---
APPROACH C
Add a continuous fronting member with curve molding, eliminate the cross angles, and strengthen the size of the
projecting support brackets. 
I feel that any of these approaches would move toward addressing the Planning Commission’s concern.
The other consideration would be the color of the cornice element. The applicant suggested in their preferred approach 
that a dark color was proposed, but that color change was not clear from the illustrations.
Kiku Crossings
Design Modifications
Design Review Comments
April 6, 2021	
  Page 9

--- page 117 ---
2. Parking Structure Facade
	
Two concerns have been raised that require some minor modifications to the south facade of the parking structure.
•	 Potential vandalism to the public art panels at the ground level adjacent to the stairway.
•	 Potential lack of sufficient exterior facade transparency to allow exterior open air ventilation of the garage rather 
than more expensive internal garage ventilation.
	
The proposed south facade changes are shown below.
	
These changes should not significantly change the appearance of the parking structure. 
Overall for the project, I would have no recommendations for changes other than the consideration of options for the 
building canopies.
Phillip, please let me know if you have any questions, or if there are specific issues of concern that I did not address.
Sincerely,
CANNON DESIGN GROUP
Larry L. Cannon   
PARKING STRUCTURE SOUTH FACADE: AS APPROVED
PARKING STRUCTURE SOUTH FACADE: AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED
Kiku Crossings
Design Modifications
Design Review Comments
April 6, 2021	
  Page 10

--- page 118 ---
25
PARKING GARAGE LAYOUT - To accommodate the final parking garage layout, the total 
number of parking spaces may be reduced by up to 15%, so long as the number of 
accessible parking spaces required by the California Building Code is maintained. The 
applicant shall deliver two hundred and thirty-five (235) parking spaces replacing 
existing public parking spaces and up to two hundred and ninety-two (292) additional 
public parking spaces prior to occupancy of the residential structure. The final parking 
layout shall not change the total amount of residential designated parking spaces. The 
final parking layout will be subject to review and approval by the City Manager. 
(PLANNING)
53
ENCROACHMENT PERMITS, BONDS, AND INSURANCE - The applicant must obtain an 
encroachment permit, posting the required bonds and insurance, and provide a one (1) 
year warranty for all work to be done in the City's right of way. This encroachment 
permit shall be obtained prior to the issuance of a foundation building permit and prior 
to any work being done in the City's right of way. The applicant shall have street 
improvement plans prepared for all work in the public right of way by a licensed civil 
engineer, whose signed engineer’s stamp shall appear on the plans. The improvement 
plans, specifications and traffic control plans shall be included in the Superstructure 
building permit submittal and substantially conform to the approved planning 
application.  Any changes to the improvements shall be approved by the Director of 
Public Works or designee at their sole discretion.  Design assumptions and criteria shall 
be submitted upon request.  Project specifications shall be included for review. Final 
construction plans, specifications and a traffic control plan shall be provided with the 
Superstructure building permit and approved by the City Engineer or his/her designee, 
and released for construction, prior to the issuance of the encroachment permit. The 
traffic control plan shall comply with the most recent version of the California Manual of 
Uniform Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD) and the City’s Traffic Control Plan 
Requirements. Quantities for items below are provided only to determine minimum 
bonding requirements for the encroachment permit. The encroachment permit for right 
of way improvements shall include, at a minimum, the following items:
(I) SEWER LATERAL - The applicant shall install as a minimum two (2) – eight (8) inch and 
one (1) – six (6) inch four (4) - six (6) inch City Standard sewer lateral connections from 
the property line to the sewer main located in the street right of way per the approved 
Planning Application Plans on E. 5th Avenue and S. Claremont St. The installation shall 
be done in accordance with City Standard Drawing 3-1-101. (PUBLIC WORKS)
78
PARK IN-LIEU/IMPACT FEES: The applicant shall pay a park impact fee (SMMC Section 
13.05.070) or a fee in-lieu of dedication of lands for park and recreation purposes (park 
in-lieu fee) (SMMC Chapter 26.64). The final fees shall be determined upon approval of 
the final map for the park In-lieu fee or prior to the issuance of the each building permit 
for the park impact fee. The park in-lieu fee shall be paid prior to final inspection or the 
date the certificate of occupancy is issued for the residential structure, whichever occurs 
first. the release of the final map for recordation and the park impact fee shall be paid

--- page 119 ---
prior to the issuance of the building permit. If a project with an approved tentative map 
is issued a building permit prior to the approval of the final map, the applicant shall be 
subject to the payment of the park impact fee only prior to the issuance of the first 
building superstructure permit. (PUBLIC WORKS).
81 
TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE - The applicant shall pay a fee proportional to 
the project's share of transportation improvements needed to serve cumulative 
development within the City of San Mateo. The fee amount for the residential structure 
will be based upon the City Council resolution in effect at the time of residential 
Superstructure building permit issuance. The fee amount for the garage structure will be 
based upon the City Council resolution in effect at the time of garage Superstructure 
building permit issuance. The fee shall be collected by the Public Works Department and 
paid prior to final inspection or the date the certificate of occupancy is issued for the 
residential structure, whichever occurs first. issuance of the first superstructure building 
permit. (PUBLIC WORKS)
82 
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT PHASE II IMPACT FEE - In order to meet the increased 
demands on the Wastewater Treatment Plant created by this project, the applicant shall 
contribute fees toward the Plant expansion based upon the average projected sanitary 
flow., as determined under the  The fee amount for the residential structure will be 
based upon the City Council resolution in effect at the time of residential Superstructure 
building permit issuance. The fee amount for the garage structure will be based upon 
the City Council resolution in effect at the time of garage Superstructure building permit 
issuance. The fee shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior to 
final inspection or the date the certificate of occupancy is issued for the residential 
structure, whichever occurs first. issuance of the first superstructure building permit. 
(PUBLIC WORKS)
83 
SANITARY SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE - The applicant shall pay a fee proportional to 
the project’s share of the increase amount of sewage generated by the project. The fee 
amount for the residential structure will be based upon the City Council resolution in 
effect at the time of residential Superstructure the building permit issuance. The fee 
amount for the garage structure will be based upon the City Council resolution in effect 
at the time of garage Superstructure building permit issuance. The fee shall be collected 
by the Public Works Department and paid prior to final inspection or the date the 
certificate of occupancy is issued for the residential structure, whichever occurs first. 
issuance of the first superstructure building permit. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 120 ---
October 2, 2020March 30, 2021
Phillip Brennan, Associate Planner
Planning Division, Community Development Department
City of San Mateo
339 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
RE:  Kiku Crossing & 5th Avenue Garage – Request for Concessions and Waivers, SPAR 
Modification
Dear Mr. Brennan,
MidPen Housing (“MidPen”) is proposing to develop 400 E. 5th Avenue and 480 E. 4th Avenue as, 
respectively, a multi-level, parking garage containing approximately 696 stalls and a 225-unit multi-
family housing development serving low-income families. The garage will include a minimum of 164 
stalls dedicated as residential parking for the adjacent housing development. An estimated 532 stalls will 
be public parking managed by the City.
This letter is an amendment to MidPen’s formal request for concessions and waivers (“Density Bonus 
Request”) for the project through California Government Code Section 65915 et seq. (“Density Bonus 
Law”) and the City’s Density Bonus Ordinance, Chapter 27.15 of the Municipal Code, which.  MidPen’s 
Density Bonus Request was originally approved by City Council on August 17, 2020 and re-approved in a 
modified form on a November 16, 2020.  The third concession regarding Compact Parking Spaces is 
revised to reflect implementation of a Universal Stall Size. All other concession and waiver requests are 
unchanged.
California Government Code Section 65915(f)(3)(D)(ii) The State Density Bonus Law, as amended 
January 1, 2020 via Assembly Bill 1763, exempts a qualifying housing development100% affordable 
housing projects within a half-mile of a major transit stop from city maximum controls on density and 
from city minimum vehicular parking requirements. In addition, it allows a height increase of up to three 
additional stories or 33 feet and confers up to four development incentives or concessions (Govt. Code 
65915(d)(2)(D)).  Govt. Code 65915(b)(1)(G) provides that 100% of units must be for lower income 
households, as defined by Health and Safety Code Section 50079.51, except that up to 20% of the units 
may be for moderate-income households, as defined in Health and Safety Code Section 500532.  Govt. 
1 Defined as follows: “Lower income households” means persons and families whose income does not exceed the qualifying 
limits for lower income families as established and amended from time to time pursuant to Section 8 of the United States 
Housing Act of 1937. The limits shall be published by the department in the California Code of Regulations as soon as 
possible after adoption by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. In the event the federal standards are 
discontinued, the department shall, by regulation, establish income limits for lower income households for all geographic 
areas of the state at 80 percent of area median income, adjusted for family size and revised annually.
2 For moderate-income households, the product of 30 percent times 110 percent of the area median income adjusted for 
family size appropriate for the [it looks like this sentence got cut off] unit.

--- page 121 ---
2
Code 65915(c)(1)(B)(ii) provides that rents for those developments meeting Govt. Code 65915(b)(1)(G) 
(above) shall be as follows: 
a)
Rent for at least 20% of the units shall be set at an affordable rent, as defined in Health and 
Safety Code Section 50053. 
b)
Rent for the remaining 80% of the units shall be set at an amount consistent with the 
maximum rent levels for a housing development that receives an allocation of state or federal 
low-income housing tax credits from the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee.
The proposed MidPen Housing project is a qualifying housing development., as The project site is within 
a half-mile of a major transit stop.  10080% of the units will be restricted to lower income households and 
20% of the units will be restricted to moderate-income households.  The units restricted to moderate-
income units will be those using rents as defined in Health and Safety Code Section 50053. and the project 
site is within a half-mile of a major transit stop.  
MidPen is requesting that the City recognize this project’s exemption from city maximum controls on 
density and right to construct up to three additional stories or 33 feet beyond the maximum building 
height permitted by the underlying zoning district. With the bonus, the density is 93.36 units/acre; without 
the bonus, the allowable density is 50 units/acre. With the exemption, the proposed is height is 7 stories; 
without the exemption, the height is 5 stories.
MidPen is also requesting that the City recognize this project’s exemption from a minimum parking 
requirement as allowed under Govt. Section 65915(p)(2). With this exemption and the proposed 
development location within a half-mile of major transit, the maximum required parking ratio is to be no 
more than 0.5 parking spaces/per unit and therefore, any additional parking spaces above the maximum 
requirement is voluntary.  This proposed development is voluntarily proposing a higher parking ratio of 
0.73 parking spaces/per unit (164 parking spaces).
We are requesting the following development concessions, which will result in an identifiable and actual 
project cost reduction:
1.
Floor Area Ratio (FAR)
The maximum FAR for the 400 E. 5th Avenue and 480 E. 4th Avenue site is currently 3.0. In order to 
build the proposed residential development and garage structure, the development would require 
approval for FAR of 3.934.28.  Therefore, a concession toward the allowable FAR is required in order 
to develop 225 units, otherwise, the proposed development would either result in a loss of units and/or 
parking spaces.  For example, in order to meet a FAR of 3.0, the residential area would need to be 
reduced by approximately 4 stories and result in a loss of approximately 130 units.  Alternatively, in 
order to maintain the unit count of 225 units, the garage would need to be reduced by approximately 3 
stories, resulting in the loss of approximately 437 parking spaces.  To spread the loss of units and 
parking spaces while meeting the current maximum FAR, the residential area would need to be 
reduced by 2 stories, resulting in the loss of approximately 65 units, and the garage structure would 
need to be reduced by 1.5 stories, resulting in a loss of 229 parking spaces.  In lieu of reducing the 
parking garage by 1.5 or 3 stories, the garage could be built to provide these parking spaces on 
subterranean levels of the garage instead of above ground; however, building subterranean parking 
spaces are cost prohibitive and would add at least approximately $11,000,000 to the cost of the 
garage.  These alternatives to meet the current FAR all result in the loss of units and/or replacement 
and new parking spaces.  In having to reduce garage area, the proposed development would no longer

--- page 122 ---
3
be able to provide both the proposed number of residential parking spaces and the replacement and 
new public parking spaces for the City, which were required for the proposed development.  
2.
Residential Parking on Separate Site
Including on-site residential parking as required under San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.64.060 
(2) would inhibit the development by forcing two of seven floors (currently containing approximately 
55 units) to be replaced with podium parking spaces.  In order to offset the loss of units due to the 
addition of podium parking spaces, an additional two residential floors could theoretically be added to 
the project, resulting in a total of nine floors; however, the maximum allowable building height is 8 
stories. As such, in order for the project to provide the on-site parking and comply with the maximum 
building height, the building would have to be comprised of 2 stories of podium parking and only 6 
stories of housing, which would not allow the project to maintain the proposed density and would 
result in a loss of approximately 34 units.  Providing residential parking onsite and underground, 
beneath the residential structure is not feasible due to the high cost (minimum of $50,000 in additional 
costs per stall, or more than $8,200,000). Resident access to the 164 residential parking spaces in the 
400 E. 5th Avenue garage will be provided via a pedestrian bridge. The pedestrian bridge, designed for 
residents only, will connect the two neighboring structures by spanning 5th Avenue.  
3.
Universal Stall Size Parking Spaces
The existence of a 12.4’ wide railroad easement on the 400 E. 4th Avenue parcel necessitated a 
reduction in the width of the garage to avoid installation of any improvements in the easement area. 
Meeting the City’s replacement and new public parking objectives within a smaller building 
necessitates implementation of a Universal Stall Size. A Universal Stall Size is not currently 
contemplated in the City’s Municipal Code but is common in other jurisdictions including San Bruno 
and San Carlos. Proceeding with a design that utilizes a Universal Stall Size, instead of a mix of 
Compact and Full Size Spaces, eliminates the inefficiencies that occur when parking patrons bypass 
Compact Stalls and/or park oversize vehicles in Compact Stalls, by providing adequately sized stalls 
for all vehicle types. The proposed Universal Stall Size is comprised of the Code-required Full-Size 
Stall width of 8’-6” and code-required Full-Size Stall longitudinal drive aisle and back up of 24’. The 
stall depth will follow the Compact standard of 17’-0.
Without approval to implement a Universal Stall Size, we would need to either reduce the total 
number of spaces to approximately 573 or build some parking underground to achieve the same 
number of spaces. Additional floors cannot be added to the garage without exceeding the City’s 
height limit. Based on the estimated 123 stalls that would need to be built underground and a $50,000 
per stall difference in development costs for underground parking, delivering the same number of 
parking stall spaces while complying with the 40% compact stall cap would add at least $6,150,000 
to the garage cost. Implementing a Compact and Full Size stall mix, as initially proposed, would also 
require a concession – as this approach delivers approximately 66% Compact Stalls, whereas the 
City’s Municipal Code allows up to 40% of spaces in a parking facility of 100+ stalls may be 
compact. However, based on analysis in consultation with City staff, the Universal Stall Size design 
and associated concession delivers a superior parking experience to future patrons of this public 
garage.
4.
Open Space
The residential development includes private open space on level 1 (35320 sf) and common open 
space on levels 1, 5 and 7 (21,004 561 sf).  Common open space includes a nature-based play area, a 
community gathering space, a public plaza and landscaping.  Total open space provided is 21,323914 
sf; as such, it is approximately 5,1974,606 sf short of meeting the common open space requirement.

--- page 123 ---
4
To comply with the requirement, approximately 65 balconies with a minimum of 80 sf each would 
need to be constructed. Each balcony would cost an estimated $18,000 to construct, or more than 
$1,170,000. If the open space requirement were to be met without adding balconies, the project 
would need to eliminate up to 12 studio units or 5 three-bedroom units. On-site indoor resident 
amenities such as a 1,700 sf community room, 1,400 sf fitness room and a 1,000 sf learning center 
are not considered open space, nor is the project’s proximity to Central Park (< 0.5 miles) factored 
into the calculation. 
We are also requesting the following development waivers, which provide relief from standards that 
would otherwise preclude building to the permitted density. 
1.
Bulk 
The 480 E. 4th Avenue site does not meet the Bulk Dimension standards or the variation criteria 
included in the City’s Municipal Code 27.40.030.  The Bulk standards require that building above 55 
feet be restricted to a maximum building dimension of 150 lineal feet and maximum diagonal 
dimension of 170 lineal feet.  The maximum building dimension of the residential structure is 
211210’-6.5”, which is 650’-6.5” longer than the 150’ cap. The maximum diagonal distance of the 
building is 310’302’-3”, which is 140’ 132’-3” longer than the 170’ cap. Since this project exceeds 
the Bulk Dimension standards, a waiver is required in order to develop the building at the permitted 
density.  If the project were to comply with the current standards, it would result in the loss of 
approximately 86 units and a total unit count of 139 instead of 225.  This change would be required 
because the building footprint would need to be reduced to comply with the maximum building 
dimension and diagonal dimension.
  
2.
Street Wall Plane
Structures and buildings on parcels identified as Street Wall Area on the Building Height and Bulk 
plan in the Downtown Specific Plan are required to have a maximum building height at the parcel 
boundary equal to the horizontal distance between the midpoint of the public right-of-way and the 
parcel boundary, or 36 feet, whichever is greater. Complying with the Street Wall Plane requirement 
would mean that a portion of the proposed building could only be 36 feet tall, which would result in 
the loss of approximately 26 affordable housing units.  See Exhibit A for a graphic of the Downtown 
Area Plan requirement as well as a graphic of the impact of the requirement on the development as 
proposed.
Thank you in advance for your consideration of this request for four (4) development concessions and 
two (2) development waivers. 
Sincerely,
Mollie Naber
Associate Director
Cc:
Alex Rogala, Senior Associate Project Manager
Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager, City of San Mateo
Sandy Council, Neighborhood Improvement and Housing Manager, City of San Mateo

--- page 124 ---
5
Exhibit A – Street Wall Plane
City of San Mateo Downtown Area Plan, adopted 2009
Chapter 4: Downtown Plan Polices, Figure 15. Street Wall Illustrations, Page 72
 
Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites Residential Development, June 2020
Impact of Street Wall Plane requirement on residential structure at S. Claremont St.

--- page 125 ---
PLANNING COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING
(PA-2021-013)
Kiku Crossing and Parking Garage  
Site Plan and Architectural Review Modification
MAY 11, 2021

--- page 126 ---
PROJECT SITE
2.41 acres/or 105,058 sq. ft. zoning 
plot (combined)
Multi-family Residential Building  
(480  E. 4th Ave.)
Parking Garage (400 E. 5th Ave.)

--- page 127 ---
BACKGROUND
Site Plan & Architectural Review (SPAR) Modification of original 
entitlement (PA-2019-033) approved in Aug. 2020
Previous SPAR Modification (PA-2020-055) to parking garage 
approved in November 2020

--- page 128 ---
PROPOSED MODIFICATIONS
Building Setbacks
Building Floor Area & Floor Plan Changes to Residential Building
Exterior Design Changes to Residential Building
Landscaping and Open Space Design
Exterior Design Changes to Parking Garage
Amended Conditions of Approval + Additional Conditions

--- page 129 ---
Design Engagement Financing

KIKU CROSSING

480 EAST ATH AVE
SAN MATEO, CA

HEART

OF SAN MATEO COUNTY



--- page 130 ---
S$ CLAREMONT ST

?

IUSHTPOLE—, PIREHYORANT DEE o. wig (IUSTFOLE BRERA TROON AA LEGEND
cade. oneal. re ee 4 7 MENT! Samar
2-0) 5-0 ows -0 a F oe cee NEW CUMS
NEW CUTE RANE —— i Tl rar ScD com) ammaor
er i Ht
i | i SULDING
| | | ane PeeeeroK seth as uur yaar
Fa i" ETE, £00
af ee ial lumury 3gT7.15"
I
(UT Fo = -|- R= == -- - -- (CUETO TOTALNeTRon atte
uae b mye7st
| swe | sruom || sumo 10 51) STAR 20 :
1 8 "ORE ROOM CXEMPT MOMATEA
-+-——_——— omar lB ! CULDING AN i. SPADH CHUTES ano EEE PRET SIZ
smumaton | Prato Ne
| fl Al By Is ed he TRASH STAGING AME
PRETTY | :
| | a 4 ur’ jimi
' i ue fas CURD CUT AT mast
! = 0
STUDIO a urs PMILOING PROJECTION
OUTUNE OF BLOB ABE. wooo 5 BEE ee nom i”
' Sy 1 >
"yi ea 2 AEANRANT Zp
ra mall PE UCD: x=
Vy We ss At asatotwes 0 f=
f “ w
s OF 6)
z eal 6 18 hil
—= AU
sa TI) ; iF 2,500
< musrror | F i
= ii bore | u 4
ly Neem OFFICE i Le
| COMMUNITY
1 OOM
‘a | toRBr ‘ as
I ij rou ny f io
LONE PROJECTION hi F , PULONG ROLECTON
L a (apoE,
aaa ? orf io]
os f Oe e :
musireo — P77 4 7 i
i ‘ ie 280 RIDGE PROUCCTION JS)
era ULDNE PROJECTON
| eee LEARNING Fo) i) wove
\QHDINS ZONE, ScD Fy 4 ‘ceNTER
ull war ‘sTuOW
MAN SETACE UNE — ; ae E
ROBEY UN pp er fal >
eat * - q
| Hea is CORE \)
ier
ne aIeaM YJ Uv YW Y |
S 2am I
k COKE MUNTENANCE 380 10 10 = 5
. ‘ESTORAEE 5
iE RAKE ——
cust — -- a -e = =||- E a nue
(EuTurr ue
i] ar aie I | |

1-0 0

=§ RAILROAD AVE—

E 4TH AVE

(PUTTY PoLe
FUSTPOL,

aE

OUTUNE OF BLOG AEDHE —f

curnack ——}

FUSTPOL,

ouERACK
PUmuTY Pou

Busta,
LOADING ZOE, SC

MAK EETRADCUNE
PRORENTY UNt —F

FUSTPOL,
(euuTury out —

S CLAREMONT ST

_BEERADE can ECA

—

Al > — ey | SUILDING |
PPROUECTION i
38D
360 STU sTuoIo ‘STUDIO = aD
MAINT
"S00 sor
Wl Cogan
om TRASH
HEATER ‘aD 120 0
cl
380
MPOE
CONF
a RAGE \
‘MECH
‘PROF
MMT | MEMT i a0
j ft)
a FRE
COMMUNITY
(EEEEEEE] zo
Wz
wossy RED
nel Lb ‘STUDIO
6 fi \ \
ecm
Lae
2D
ELEY
LEARNING:
‘CENTER nq BD
er
STUDIO.
Ie
‘BIE RM ac
= = 2 5 20-5 =D
‘IEE MAINTENANCE.
STORAGE
len] s wit s = = s 5 i sTur
7 —
§ RAIIROAN AVE MEAS ARISTON

LOOP: ANE LeaeN

= “aa

cmc amy

sr iyeez at

umure

amar

TOTALNET LOOM AREA
aEuy

""EREROOM EVEMPT PRO AREA
EER SHEET B12

E 5TH AVE

enon PROJECTION (ABOVE}

Ff ULDING PROLECTION
aaa]

Aye



--- page 131 ---
S CLAREMONT ST

E4THAVE

DAO) ML

Overhead Lines

5 RAILROAD AVE



--- page 132 ---
3
Unit Layout Changes
Approved
Proposed
3BR/2BA
3BR/1.5BA

--- page 133 ---
OCCUPIED,
ROOF DECK

Proposed



--- page 134 ---
t t
2-10" 202-6 5-8

TOPARAPET

81-6"
TO PLATE Es
72-8

=| - PME _ Parapet Heights
| 8'- 10 1/2" FFTO CLG HEIGHT
____LevELo7
63'- 8°
8'- 8 1/2° FFTO CLG HEIGHT
a LEVEL 06

-— "ae

rd iN ial int

fem om i uni int

] HU f-hur ROSE
LEVEL 05,

HT

ie

coe
8-81 FTOCLG HECHT

| | int
BLO gy
ju | roe sy jolie 8:12 FTOCAGHEGHT

LEVEL 03
ua om Te et | {| a OF as roast
i

69° - 8[ HT TO TO PLATE
78'} 6"HT TO TO PARAPET.
FR@M ADJACENT GRADE

FROM ADJACENT GRADE

Window Layout

Ss

| a E = F ll id aa, | | \0-TFTOCLGHEIGHT &
7p ADJACENT GRADE ‘al ) im Ime me : ADJACENT GRADE in

Tz +—

Pins T al
LEVEL 01 (121.5) EATH AVE ESTHAVE LEVEL O1b (1215)
7-0 7-0
(@ EXTERIOR ELEVATION - SOUTH - HOUSING BLOCK - STREET AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED
on ea ED) | | DOD OOO ®
t t
TOPARAPET | TOPARAPET
. TF i t 78-5 T
TO.PLATE(2) lle Io _ _TOPLATE(2) .
72-8 l 72-8
8 10 1/2" FETOCLG HEIGHT
] 1 1 || seve roaster
| SS EVEL 06 -
——— o-8" ar
=8 -8 1/2" FFTOCLGHEIGHT Sal
= EVELO5 (selec
| 8'-B1/2"FFTO CLG HEIGHT 2/8 els
ven =/Se\8
Be |< in| s
8'-81/2" FETOCLGHEIGHT 2 3h g
__AVELO3 &™
a8
wien) A 8 - 11° FFTO CLG HEIGHT
; ____LevELoe 4
| i ae ee HGH 6
@| i ! =
ADJACENT GRADE ADJACENT GRADE
1233 OO — ~ i ee ~ ~ ~ ~ me Sy ~
: LEVELOW(I21.5 DATUM) /g gry aye “) ESTHAVE LEVEL 01(121.5° DATUM,
7-0 7 ; ; 7-0
z 32
S EXTERIOR ELEVATION - SOUTH - HOUSING BLOCK - STREET AS APPROVED
1/16" =1'-0"

@ Elevation Changes an



--- page 135 ---
( CORNICE - AXON VIEW (NW Corner) - ABOVE O CORNICE - AXON VIEW (NW Corner) - STREET
aay any



--- page 136 ---
AS CURRENTLY PROPOSED

AS APPROVED

a---- =
=== =

iol

SOUTH ELEVATION

rT TTT TTT trie

SOUTH ELEVATION

SCALE: 1/16"=1-0"

MML2

ee ee = ee

MTL-2



--- page 137 ---
“Kiku” is the Japanese word for chrysanthemum, a flower that was 
cultivated in the late 19th century/early 20th century by the Japanese 
immigrant community in San Mateo County. Chrysanthemums 
formed the bedrock of a booming floral industry and were a source 
of livelihood for many who faced discriminatory land use and 
property laws. The San Mateo Japanese American Community 
Center directly neighbors the site, and continues to serve as an arts, 
education, and services space for the contemporary Japanese-
American community in the region. The word “Crossing” reflects the 
coming together, convergence, and movement associated with the 
adjacent Caltrain railroad tracks in downtown San Mateo.
Thank You

--- page 138 ---
DESIGN REVIEW
Design Review Letter (April 6, 2021)
Formally reviewed by the Larry Cannon of Cannon Design Group
No recommended design changes
Provided suggestions for alternative cornice designs

--- page 139 ---
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
Amended Conditions
Condition #25 – Parking Garage Layout
Condition #53 – Encroachment Permits, Bonds, and Insurance
Conditions #78, 81, 82 and 83 – (Impact Fee Related)
Additional Conditions
Conditions #1 and 2 – Tree Protection Plan and Tree Protection Measures
Condition #3 – Utility Clearances and Utility Boxes

--- page 140 ---
Recommend City Council adoption of a Resolution approving the Site Plan and 
Architectural Review Modification, including revised and additional Conditions of 
Approval, to the multi-family residential building located at 480 E. 4th Avenue and to the 
parking garage located at 400 E. 5th Avenue.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION

--- page 141 ---
QUESTIONS?

--- page 142 ---
PA 2021-013: Kiku Crossing and Parking Garage- Site Plan and Architectural Review Modification. 
At the City Council meeting the Council Members voted to remove vegetation to this current Parking lot sites on 
480 E. 4th Avenue and 400- East 5th Avenue. The vegetation consists of 5 Heritage Tree on S. Claremont 
Avenue and 6 trees only about 20 years old, planted by the City of San Mateo. 
All of these trees are mature trees providing a tree line shaded street for both 4th Avenue on the East side from 
South Railroad Avenue to East 5th Avenue and South Claremont Streets. The trees on East 4th Avenue 
between South Railroad and S. Claremont were planted by the City of San Mateo at least 20 years ago. 
The 5 Heritage trees on S. Claremont Street between East 4th and East 5th Avenue are over 100 years old. 
I am concerned about the 5 Heritage trees and the trees on 4th Avenue being removed from this parcel 
because of the Kiku Building will be extended all the way to the end of the sidewalks. Please notice across the 
street the Windy Hill Project has no trees but a piece of metal art work in front of the building on S. Railroad 
and East 4th Avenues. Also, I would like to note that this project has been building for about 2 years now. The 
project has blocked parts of East 3rd Avenue and S. Claremont Streets, whereas it has had an effect on the 
“family-owned” businesses during this pandemic. These businesses cannot place “parklets" on East 3rd Avenue 
for outdoor dining. They rely on “takeout" or delivery only. 
I understand that the City Council voted to remove these trees from this property. 
However, during the last two years I have been going to all the meetings of The Mid-Peninsula affortable 
Housing Plan(PA 2019-033). I wrote a letter to the City Council and the Planning Commission about the trees. I 
have added this attachment for you to read, again. 
We the property taxpayers of the City of San Mateo bought these trees and the Public Works Department have 
been paid for the care of these trees. The Heritage trees have been here probably before South Claremont 
Street was paved with cement because the business South Lumber presides there for at least a century. 
Since this project has been revised to the new Kiku Residual proposal I would like the new proposals  to cut 
these trees and any other Heritage tree to be resented because the trees on sidewalks belong to the Public. 
I would like to suggest that the Planning Commission and The City Council of San Mateo realize the youth 
groups, like Boy and Girl Scouts of America have projects where they plant trees to beautify our world. 
Please let’s take the Kiku Crossing and Parking Garage Site to the Sustainable and Infustructor Committee first 
before this project is approved tonight. This project never was at the Sustainable and Infustructor Committee,  
like the Ben Franklin and Draper University project last 2 months ago.  
Removing these mature beautiful trees at the Gateway of Central Park and Downtown San Mateo is not a 
Sustainable way to a clean way of Life. 
I have attached photos of these trees aligned on the streets, the utility box, and the Windy Hill building. 
If you have any questions, I will be on the Zoom meeting tonight. 
Submitted; 
Diana C. Pettit 
Item #1
Letter #1

--- page 143 ---
Please advise me of which trees are slated for removal on this property. 
Originally, when this project was 2019-033, I wrote a letter to City Council before approval of the project and 
removing 67 trees and 5 Heritage Trees. 
I would recommend this project for removal of these trees be sent to Sustainable and the Infustructor 
Committee before this 2021-013 is passed by the City Council Members tonight. Our Infustructor needs 
updated to keep our City from building buildings without considering more of a better Carbon Footprint. 
Replacing Heritage trees with Art work made of Silver Colored Structure is not a representation of Central Park 
neighborhood. 
Please answer my inquiry a out the trees to either 
 or email 
 
Thank you.

--- page 144 ---


--- page 145 ---


--- page 146 ---
it en ee AY
ee “~~ “ae: f a ae =
ead SEPRENS Deh lps .° OP
i) \ ‘wy

a
a ?

“7 fod a Aa



--- page 147 ---


--- page 148 ---


--- page 149 ---


--- page 150 ---
July 9, 2020 
To: The Planning Commission of The City of San Mateo 
RE: PA-2019-033 City -Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites 
-Site Development Planning Application(SDPA)for the removal of major vegetation
PROJECT UPDATE: 
In 2019, the State of California passed AB 1763, which requires cities to allow reduced development standards 
and density bonuses for certain affordable housing developments. On May 26, 2020, in accordance with this 
law, the Planning Commission reviewed a proposed “Affordable Housing Projects Near Transit” ordinance that 
would provide up to six waivers or reductions of development standards for AB 1763 covered projects. The 
Planning Commission recommended that the City Council adopt the proposed ordinance (3-2 vote). Therefore, 
the PA-2019-033 Application from the Mid-Peninsula Housing Corporation and the City of San Mateo were 
partners in the development of City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites.   
The PA-2019-033/ City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites, SPAR+SDPA+SUP  
Is very complex and these issues should be brought for public in different  meetings . The excavation to build 
these two  structures will be destruction of our natural resource into the Downtown area for 5 Decades, the 
tree lined streets on 4th and 5th Avenues. 
   Aside from the Initial Study, the Site Plan and Architectural  Review(SPAR), and the Special Use Permit(SUP) for  
   the parking garage, this Public comment is referring to the Site Development Planning Application(SDPA) for 
      removal of major vegetation.       
The major vegetation is the removal of 67 mature trees, of which are 4 Heritage trees. These trees have been 
around and inside these parcels for 5 decades. They are a source for our birds and squirrels . The birds use the 
the trees for nesting and both squirrels and birds use them for vegetation. Pedestrians enjoy the tree lined 
street for shade. The beauty of these are the entrance into Downtown and Central Park. The General Plan of 
the City of San Mateo 2040 uses these “tree lined communities" to describe our neighborhoods. 
If you take a walk on 5th Avenue at South Claremont Street, go East  on 5th Avenue and continue down to E. 
Humboldt (towards the highway 101), you will pass at least 67 trees lining both sides of 5th Avenue. This is the 
number of trees to be removed during excavation of both parcels. The removal of this beautiful trees of nature 
is destroying our natural resource. A walkway into the Downtown area of recreational enjoyment for 
everyone. 
       The proposed project plans to bring the “tree-lined" atmosphere with Cement planters with new foliage. The   
      proposed graphics using brick materials will not take the place of our natural resource. The residents of the         
     the adjoining neighborhoods, east of the Cal-Train Corridor like the ability to walk or bicycle with these trees. 
     Since our lifestyle has changed because of Coronavirus pandemic, our streets are “detoured” to accommodate 
    the ability to continue a “regular" lifestyle with outdoor dining. Many residents in the communities will walk or 
 or bicycle to Downtown to dine or for family time. 
   Under the Ordinance No. 2020 of the City of San Mateo, whereas under #11, it states “this project will not have 
  a significant effect on the environment".  Removing 67 trees in a two block parcels is possible “global warming" 
  effect on our life. 
 Please help keep these beautiful trees we have had in the Downtown community for 5 decades. 
Item #1
Letter #2

--- page 151 ---
There are other sites of 100%Afforatable Housing in the future for the City of San Mateo. Let's keep this site with 
tree lined streets, all 67 of them. 
Thank You. 
Diana Pettit

--- page 152 ---
From: diana pettit 
>  
Sent: Monday, May 10, 2021 8:10 AM 
To: Phillip Brennan <pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Alex Rogala <alexander.rogala@midpen-housing.org> 
Subject: 2021-013 
I am concerned about the removal of the 5 Heritage trees removal from this parcel because of the Kinko 
Residental Property. 
I understand that there were votes proposal in the last couple months to give the approval to the City 
Council and Planning Commission to determine  removal of these trees. 
If I am not mistaken this issue of the removal of the Heritage trees have not been reviewed by the 
Sustainable and Infustructor Committee. The removal of these trees will affect the beautiful lined street 
into Downtown San Mateo. The families living in this housing project will not have any "park-like" 
enviroment which these trees have provided for 100 years. 
Please advise me of which trees are slated for removal on this property. 
Originally, when this project was 2019-033, I wrote a letter to City Council before approval of the project 
and removing 67 trees and 5 Heritage Trees. 
I would recommend this project for removal of these trees be sent to Sustainable and the Infustructor 
Committee before this 2021-013 is passed by the City Council Members tonight. Our Infustructor needs 
updated to keep our City from building buildings without considering more of a better Carbon Footprint. 
Replacing Heritage trees with Art work made of Silver Colored Structure is not a representation of 
Central Park neighborhood. 
Please answer my inquiry a out the trees to either 
, or email 
Thank you. 
Item #1
Letter #3

--- page 153 ---
From: l watanuki 
Sent: Wednesday, May 12, 2021 11:42 AM 
To: Julia Klein <jklein@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: 
 Michael Weinhauer 
; 
Maurine Killough 
 Benjamin Portusach 
Phillip 
Brennan <pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Drew Corbett <dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Questions raised at the 5/11/21 Planning Commission Meeting for the Kiku Crossing & Garage 
Project  
Dear Ms. Klein, 
Due to technical issues at the meeting last night, can you pass these questions to Chair Mallory and 
Members of the Planning Commission and also place them into the record.  
1.
Since there was an increase in the set-backs, a decrease in the total floor area, and changes in floor
plans, what is the square foot age of the Studios, 1 BRs, 2 BRs, and 3 BRs?
2.
We stated our concerns with the name 5th Avenue garage to Alex Rogala of MidPen Housing.  The
name 5th Avenue Garage might encourage more drivers to use 5th Avenues as a direct route from 101
and to the freeway, versus taking 3rd to S. Claremont to the 700 car public garage, which was suggested
by the City.  The 5th Avenue route is something we would like to avoid.  Other garage names for
consideration might be:  Kiku Crossing Garage, Kiku Central Garage, Central Railroad Garage, naming the
garage after a notable person such as Greg St. Clair (former Sustainability & Infrastructure
Commissioner).  This garage is a public/public project.
3.
We would like to make 5th Avenue a safer route for the families with children, Seniors, bicyclists
and reduce the current cut-through of vehicles and 16 wheelers.  5th Avenue is the natural route to the
Downtown from the overpass since 3rd and 4th Avenues are too dangerous for the bicyclists and
pedestrians.  The pedestrian lighting is inadequate on 5th Avenue at night and it will be a bike
boulevard. It is important for the pedestrians and bicyclists to have a safe route since it is a local
street.  Construction on this project will begin at the end of the year, so we need to move quickly on the
speed humps and lighting.
Thanks. 
Laurie Watanuki 
Michael Weinhauer 
Maurine Killough 
Ben Portusach  
Central Neighborhood Board Members 
Item #1
Letter #4