San Rafael CA PD
Transparency Portal

Last Updated: Tue Apr 21 2026

Overview

"San Rafael Police Department uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. San Rafael Police Department utilizes retroactive searches to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, the San Rafael Police Department utilizes real-time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, we have made the policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Policies

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by the San Rafael Police Department and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harrassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
Usage

Data retention (in days)

30 days

Number of LPR and other cameras

27

Organizations granted access to San Rafael CA PD data

Alameda County CA SO, Belvedere CA PD, Berkeley CA PD, California Highway Patrol, Central Marin CA PD, El Cerrito CA PD, Fairfield CA PD, Foster City CA PD, Livermore CA PD, Los Altos CA PD, Marin County CA DA, Marin County CA SO, Napa CA PD, Newark CA PD , Novato CA PD, Palo Alto CA PD, Rohnert Park Department of Public Safety (CA), San Francisco CA PD, San Francisco District Attorney CA, San Mateo County CA SO

Hotlists Alerted On

California SVS, NCMEC Amber Alert

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

419,563

Hotlist hits in the last 30 days

1,726

Searches in the last 30 days

119
Additional Info

Policy Link

https://www.srpd.org/transparency#policies

Additional Info

Provided by Flock Safety