Transparency Portal
Visit Flock
San Rafael CA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Wed Jun 10 2026

OVERVIEW

"San Rafael Police Department uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. San Rafael Police Department utilizes retroactive searches to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, the San Rafael Police Department utilizes real-time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, we have made the policies and usage statistics available to the public.

POLICIES

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by the San Rafael Police Department and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harrassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
USAGE

LPR Cameras

Number of LPR cameras only.

22

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to San Rafael CA PD data.

Alameda County CA SO
Belvedere CA PD
Berkeley CA PD
California Highway Patrol
Central Marin CA PD
Fairfield CA PD
Foster City CA PD
Livermore CA PD
Los Altos CA PD
Marin County CA DA
Marin County CA SO
Napa CA PD
Newark CA PD
Novato CA PD
Palo Alto CA PD
Rohnert Park Department of Public Safety (CA)
San Francisco CA PD
San Francisco District Attorney CA
San Mateo County CA SO

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

California SVS, NCMEC Amber Alert

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

449,812

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

2,531

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

156
ADDITIONAL INFO

Policy Link

https://www.srpd.org/transparency#policies

Additional Info

Provided by Flock Safety