5 vehicles stolen from Alameda County maintenance garage; investigation underway | KTVU FOX 2 Live News Weather Sports World Cup Contests More Watch Live Expand / Collapse search ☰ Search site News Local National Crime Drought Wildfires Business Consumer Podcasts West Coast Wrap FOX News Sunday Election Mornings Zip Trips Traffic Contests Recipes Weather Weather Alerts Live Bay Area Weather Cameras Air Quality Map Wildfires Earthquakes Severe Weather Weather App FOX Weather Sports 2026 FIFA World Cup on FOX Watch FIFA World Cup 2026 San Francisco 49ers Golden State Warriors San Francisco Giants Golden State Valkyries Oakland Roots Oakland Ballers The Athetics San Jose Sharks San Jose Earthquakes USFL Investigations California EDD Homelessness Cost of California Powerless In Prison Unleashed Force: Power and Police Dogs Specials California's Electric Revolution The Four High Stakes: Sports Betting in California Made in the Bay Powerless In Prison Sports Focus Talk of the Town This Is Me: Transgender Journeys Unleashed Force: Power and Police Dogs Voices For Change West Coast Wrap Zip Trips Brand Spotlight Money Personal Finance The Economy Small Business Regional News Los Angeles News - FOX 11 Phoenix News - FOX 10 Phoenix Seattle News - FOX 13 Seattle About Us How To Stream KTVU Staff Jobs and Careers Contact KTVU FOX Shows and Programming KTVU's Schedule Live News Stream Schedule Mobile Apps Subscribe To KTVU's Newsletter FCC Public File FCC Applications 5 vehicles stolen from Alameda County maintenance garage; investigation underway By KTVU Staff and Aaron Dickens KTVU FOX 2 News Published June 7, 2026 2:36 PM PDT Share Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Reddit Published June 7, 2026 2:36 PM PDT article Authorities were able to recover the vehicles by using automated license plate readers. The Brief The Alameda County Sheriff’s Office discovered just after 7:15 a.m. on Sunday that a parking garage at 165 13th St. had been broken into and five department vehicles were missing. Authorities were able to recover the vehicles by using automated license plate readers. OAKLAND, Calif. - Several vehicles were stolen from an Alameda County maintenance garage in Oakland on Sunday morning. What we know: The sheriff’s office discovered just after 7:15 a.m. on Sunday that a parking garage at 165 13th St. had been broken into and five department vehicles were missing, according to a department statement. ACSO Sgt. Roberto Morales told KTVU that a preliminary investigation indicated that an unknown number of suspects forced their way into the maintenance garage through a gate. Morales added that one of the vehicles stolen belonged to a rental company, while another was an unmarked police vehicle belonging to the sheriff's office. Authorities were able to recover four of the vehicles by using automated license plate readers, though the fifth vehicle – the unmarked sheriff's vehicle – was still outstanding on Sunday morning and the sheriff's department advised the public to exercise caution if they were approached by individuals claiming to be law enforcement in a blue 2025 Ford Explorer. However, the sheriff's office told KTVU about 4:20 p.m. that the remaining police vehicle had been found and recovered. What's next: An investigation into the vehicle thefts is ongoing, and no suspects have been taken into custody. Anyone with information was asked to contact the Alameda County Sheriff’s Office at 510-667-7721. The Source: Alameda County Sheriff’s Office News Crime and Public Safety Oakland Daily Newsletter All the news you need to know, every day By clicking Sign Up, I confirm that I have read and agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service . Most Watched View More video Earthquake swarm strikes South Bay video CHP begins Thanksgiving holiday enforcement video Black Friday deals curbed by tariff-driven costs Trending Driver flees after crashing into Castro district restaurants San Francisco officer, passenger injured in shootout; robbery suspect arrested Australian team arrives in Bay Area for FIFA World Cup 1 killed, 2 injured in downtown San Jose shooting; car crashes into building Prom held at Hercules High celebrates students with special needs News Local National Crime Drought Wildfires Business Consumer Podcasts West Coast Wrap FOX News Sunday Election Mornings Zip Trips Traffic Contests Recipes Weather Weather Alerts Live Bay Area Weather Cameras Air Quality Map Wildfires Earthquakes Severe Weather Weather App FOX Weather Sports 2026 FIFA World Cup on FOX Watch FIFA World Cup 2026 San Francisco 49ers Golden State Warriors San Francisco Giants Golden State Valkyries Oakland Roots Oakland Ballers The Athetics San Jose Sharks San Jose Earthquakes USFL Investigations California EDD Homelessness Cost of California Powerless In Prison Unleashed Force: Power and Police Dogs Specials California's Electric Revolution The Four High Stakes: Sports Betting in California Made in the Bay Powerless In Prison Sports Focus Talk of the Town This Is Me: Transgender Journeys Unleashed Force: Power and Police Dogs Voices For Change West Coast Wrap Zip Trips Brand Spotlight Money Personal Finance The Economy Small Business Regional News Los Angeles News - FOX 11 Phoenix News - FOX 10 Phoenix Seattle News - FOX 13 Seattle About Us How To Stream KTVU Staff Jobs and Careers Contact KTVU FOX Shows and Programming KTVU's Schedule Live News Stream Schedule Mobile Apps Subscribe To KTVU's Newsletter FCC Public File FCC Applications email youtube facebook instagram tik tok twitter Privacy Policy Terms of Use Your Privacy Choices FCC Public File EEO Public File About Us Jobs and Internships Contact Us This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2026 FOX Television Stations