--- page 1 ---
Berkeley police hear concerns as they consider
expanding Flock Safety cameras, adding drones
Published January 15, 2026 11:12 PM PST
The Brief
By Zak Sos
KTVU FOX 2
News
Berkeley police hear concerns as department considers expanding Flock Safety cameras
Berkeley already has 52 fixed Flock cameras installed throughout the city tha
function as automated license plate readers.
nt
sement
Watch Live

--- page 2 ---
What they're saying:
Berkeley police are weighing an expansion of their Flock Safety camera program as
community members raise concerns about data collection and access.
The department hosted a community meeting Wednesday to gather public input as 
moves closer to submitting formal proposals to the City Council. 
The discussion comes as other California cities reevaluate their use of Flock Safety.
BERKELEY, Calif. - Berkeley police are weighing an expansion of their Flock
Safety camera program, including the addition of more fixed license plate rea
and the possible use of drones, as community members raise concerns abou
data collection and access.
The department hosted a community meeting Wednesday to gather public in
as it moves closer to submitting formal proposals to the City Council.
Berkeley already has 52 fixed Flock cameras installed
throughout the city that function as automated license p
readers.
Police leaders said the technology could help address staffing shortages and
improve safety.
"It’s an exciting time to look at the technologies that can support, especially
because of the severe staffing crises that we are seeing," said Berkeley Police
Chief Jennifer Louis.
Louis said any decision must balance public safety with privacy protections.
"I have to make decisions that are best for our community, best for safety, be
that uphold our values and our privacy," said Louis.
nt
sement

--- page 3 ---
The other side:
San Francisco police currently use the drone camera technology, which offici
say has helped combat crime, including burglaries and sideshows, in real tim
Berkeley police said drones could allow officers to monitor situations from a
distance, prioritize de-escalation and make arrests more safely. 
"We are able to identify, build a criminal case against someone who is comm
a crime and then safely identify where they are, and often follow them away f
that location and apprehend them in a safer way," said Louis.
Berkeley’s fire department also said drones could be useful during fires.
But several residents expressed concerns about how video d
would be stored, who could access it. 
"It’s about trusting the purpose of this and the eventual use of this, because
again, as we see, especially now in this country, things are being abused," sai
Berkeley resident Maria Sol.
Louis said access to the data would be tightly controlled.
"That information is only available to those outside of our police department
case-by-case basis, with them providing a law enforcement purpose that fits
within our use policies, and that would have to be vetted by us before we rel
it," said Louis.
Another resident raised concerns about whether information could be share
with federal immigration authorities, including U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. Louis emphasized Berkeley’s sanctuary city policies.
nt
sement

--- page 4 ---
Big picture view:
"We are a sanctuary city. We follow state law and we believe very deeply in ou
sanctuary city policies, which is we do not gather and share information to fe
agencies for the purpose of immigration enforcement," said Louis.
The discussion comes as other California cities reevaluate th
use of Flock Safety. This week, the Santa Cruz City Council vo
to terminate its contract with the company, citing concerns t
data could potentially be accessed by out-of-state agencies.
Berkeley police said they plan to safeguard their own data.
"We are a sanctuary city. We follow state law, and we follow and believe very
deeply in our sanctuary city policies, which is, we do not gather and share
information to federal agencies for the purpose of immigration enforcement
said Louis.
The department expects to submit a proposal to the City Council in February
additional fixed Flock cameras. A separate proposal for drone cameras is
expected to be submitted in March.
The Source: Original reporting by Zak Sos of KTVU
News
Berkeley
nt
sement

--- page 5 ---
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2026 FOX Television Stations